Text ID:
uk_fb_db_22031_00005.txt


Facebook-Post by user: Nick Clegg
Full Name: Clegg, Nick (Liberal Democrats), United Kingdom
Published on: 06.05.2015, 15:44:35

Type: Status Update

Text of the posting:
-------------
Tomorrow, you face one of the biggest political decisions of your life.

The stakes could not be higher. Everybody knows that no one is going to win this election outright, so what really matters is who David Cameron or Ed Miliband have by their side in Government.

Ask yourself this: Do you want Nigel Farage walking through the door of No 10? Do you want Alex Salmond sat at the cabinet table? Or do you want me and the Liberal Democrats?

Without enough Liberal Democrat MPs to keep the next Government safe, stable and fair, either Ed Miliband or David Cameron will be left to run a messy and unstable minority Government, dependent on the SNP on the one hand or UKIP and the DUP on the other.

The Liberal Democrats will add a heart to a Conservative Government and a brain to a Labour one.

Every Liberal Democrat MP makes Labours reckless borrowing less likely. 

Every Liberal Democrat MP makes George Osbornes ideological cuts less likely.

And every Liberal Democrat MP is a barrier between Nigel Farage and Alex Salmond and the door to 10 Downing Street.

We will always put the good of the country first and provide stability and fairness, just as we have done for the last five years.

We will always stand up for unity against those who seek to pull us apart. We wont divide our communities, like UKIP. We wont divide our society, like the Conservatives. And we wont rip our country apart, like the SNP.

I want a Britain where, no matter what your background, you have the opportunity to reach your potential. A Britain that remains an open-minded, open-hearted, generous country.

A Britain with a stronger economy and a fairer society; where can finish the job of balancing the books, but do it fairly; where we can invest in education and the NHS; where we can cut taxes for millions of working people and give a fair deal to our public sector workers; and where we can protect our environment for future generations.

Every Liberal Democrat vote and every Liberal Democrat MP will be dedicated to building a stable economy, a decent society and a united country.

