Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040149.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Islamic Colonisation Continues: Sharia Law Takes Hold in Prisons as Counter Terrorism Chiefs Call for Armed Military Patrols on Our Streets
April 18, 2010

The speed at which Britain is being colonised by Islam was illustrated this week with the news that Muslim gangs are enforcing sharia law in prisons and with a call for armed military police to patrol our streets to counter a Mumbai-style terrorist attack.

According to a BBC investigation, Muslim gangs are imposing a form of sharia law inside some of Britains prisons where their numbers now appear to dominate.

According to the investigation, non-Muslim inmates at the high-security Long Lartin jail have been forced by the Muslims to stop playing Western music and take down pictures of women from their cells.

Prisoners at the jail, although allowed to cook their own food, are not allowed to prepare pork for fear of offending the Muslim inmates, the investigation said.

According to a former prisons officer who spoke to Radio Five Lives Donal Macintyre Show, younger prisoners were targeted for forced conversion to Islam by the gangs.

One Catholic prisoner who refused to convert was seriously assaulted after being repeatedly threatened by the gang, the officer said. He said every so often they would come to his cell and hold the Koran up through the small window in the cell door and start running their fingers along their throats, the officer said.

Last year, the chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, warned in an official report about the increasing dominance of Muslim gangs in the jail.

Ms Owers says there is a similar gang culture in at least three other high-security prisons: Whitemoor in Cambridgeshire, Belmarsh in South East London and Full Sutton in North Yorkshire. Some of the gang leaders are terrorist prisoners but most are in for ordinary offences.

Two Muslim former prisoners claimed in the BBC programme that Muslims run some London jails and described how they watched al-Qaeda videos in their cells, brought in by corrupt prison officers.

Malcolm Moss, national chair of the Prison Officers Association, said: We are seeing more and more Muslim gangs in our prisons. Often Muslims who go to prison are forced into gangs for their own protection. And that culture takes over a wing, takes over an area of the prison. We see it as a real danger, now and for the future of prisons.

At the same time, the Assistant Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, John Yates, called for armed police across the country to be equipped with high powered assault rifles to cope with a Mumbai-style terrorist attack.

He said it was necessary to cope with the threat from armed terrorists on the rampage of the kind seen in India in November 2008 who killed more than 200 people and wounded more than 700.

Mr Yates said: Our response from a traditional unarmed police service comes at a high cost to us. The risk to the unarmed bobby on the street means that armed officers should be given heavier ballistic weaponry and heavier ballistic ammunition.

Some of my colleagues from across the country see this as a fundamental change in mission, yet we will be the first there, the first in the line of fire, he added.

The first hour of any attack would be critical, he said, adding: During the first hour there are going to be a lot of challenges, a lot of dead people.

Mr Yates, who was speaking at the Counter-Terrorism Expo in central London, said al-Qaeda was mutating and there was now a greater risk from affiliates in Somalia and Yemen than from the core in Pakistan and Afghanistan.

Mr Yates did not make mention of the obvious fact that it is large scale Islamic immigration into Britain which lies at the core of the problem.

There are, for example, an estimated 250,000 Somali asylum seekers currently living in Britain and the Muslim population is increasing ten times faster than any other segment of the population.

As the number of Muslims increase, so do the number of Islamists. Hence Mr Yates is correct: it is only a matter of time before a serious attack like the Mumbai massacre takes place  and the blood spilled in such an incident will be on the hands of the Tory and Labour parties who have encouraged the Third World immigration invasion.

Posted in IMMIGRATION, National News, RELIGION | Comments (130)

