Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_050017.txt

Press Release from Party: Greens

Fair is worth fighting for - and Green is worth betting on, says UK's largest online betting site

15 April 2010

As the Green Party launches its 2010 general election manifesto under the title Fair is worth fighting for, the UK's biggest online betting website says the Green Party's leader Caroline Lucas is well worth a bet - putting her at odds-on favourite to win the Brighton Pavilion seat.

According to Betfair's figures, it's a two-horse race, with the Green candidate several lengths ahead of the Conservative. Labour is finding the going very heavy, and the Lib Dems are struggling to get away at all.

The Green Party's leader and South East MEP Caroline Lucas has a 51% chance of winning, says Betfair. Ms Lucas is the first candidate in the constituency to get past the 50% mark.Betfair says: This is the first time since betting began that a candidate in this contest has been odds-on in this election. Caroline Lucas now has a 51% chance of winning the seat, say Betfair customers.

The Conservatives are 15-8 (a 35% chance) and Labour third on 9-2 (19%), whilst the Lib Dems are seemingly out of the race at 59-1 (2%).

Our customers bet against each other and set their own odds, so this is the opinion of real people and not your regular bookie. That's why this move in the market is so noteworthy.

Caroline Lucas commented: We're greatly encouraged by these figures: these results are a summary of many people's views about the results of the election in Brighton Pavilion, and they stand to win or lose money on their judgement! I'm continually hearing positive responses when I'm out meeting voters. There is a real sense that people in Brighton Pavilion recognise that a Green MP here will make sure their interests are strongly represented in Westminster. Now our task is to translate this into the real result  the vote on May 6. Notes

1. More information from www.electionpredict.com/news.

2. On course for the first Green MP: A poll by ICM* (December 2009) has predicted a Green Party win in Brighton Pavilion, with the Greens at 35%, Conservatives at 27%, Labour at 25% and the Lib Dems at 11%. This follows a YouGov poll (October 2009) which predicted the Greens would take their first seat in Brighton Pavilion. ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 533 adults aged 18+ by telephone on 16-21st December 2009. Interviews were conducted across the political constituency of Brighton Pavilion and the results have been weighted to the profile of all Brighton Pavilion adults. ICM is a member of the British Polling Council and abides by its rules.

3. In the 2009 Euro-elections, the Green Party in Brighton and Hove took 31% of the vote, ahead of the Conservatives (22%) and Labour (15%).  

