Text ID:
uk_pm_el_83_228060009.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 1983
-------------------------------------

Schools: The Pursuit of Excellence

For a long time now, parents have been worried about standards and discipline in many of our schools. This Conservative Government has responded to that worry with the Parents' Charter and the 1980 Education Act. For the first time:

    local authorities were obliged to take account of parents' choice of school for their children;
    schools were obliged to publish prospectuses, giving details of their examination results;
    parents were given the right to be represented on school governing bodies;
    the Government offered Assisted Places to enable less well-off parents to send bright children to some of the best independent schools. 

Giving parents more power is one of the most effective ways of raising educational standards. We shall continue to seek ways of widening parental choice and influence over their children's schooling.

We shall defend Church schools and independent schools alike against our opponents' attacks. And we shall defend the right of parents to spend their own money on educating their children.

This country is now spending more per child in school than ever before, even after allowing for price rises. As a result, the average number of children per teacher is the lowest ever. Exactly how the money is spent, and how schools are run, is up to local education authorities.

But the Government can help improve standards and make sure that children are taught and trained for the world they will grow up into.

    Until now, HM Inspectors' reports have remained secret. Now we are publishing them and making sure they are followed up, too.
    We are not satisfied with the selection or the training of our teachers. Our White Paper sets out an important programme for improving teacher training colleges.
    We shall switch the emphasis in the Education Welfare Service back to school attendance, so as to reduce truancy.
    We have given special help for refresher courses for teachers, research into special schools, and play groups and nursery schools where they are most needed.
    We shall also encourage schools to keep proper records of their pupils' achievements, buy more computers, and carry out external graded tests. The public examination system will be improved, and O-level standards will be maintained.
    We are setting up fourteen pilot projects to bring better technical education to teenagers. The success of these will play a vital part in raising technical training in Britain to the level of our best overseas competitors. 

Higher Education

Our universities and polytechnics, too, must generate new ideas and train the skilled workforce of the next generation. We have unrivalled institutions and unrivalled inventive genius - as the number of British Nobel prize-winners shows. What matters is to bring the two closer together and make the best practical use of both.

Britain has more students in professional training than Japan, and a greater proportion of young people in higher education than France or West Germany. More of our young people are now entering full-time degree courses than under the last Labour government. And a larger proportion of them complete their courses than in most other countries.

The very large sums of public money now going to higher education must be spent in the most effective way. Within that budget, we want to see a shift towards technological, scientific and engineering courses.

    We have set aside money for 700 new posts for young lecturers over three years to bring new blood into research.
    Over the next three years, we will provide for more teaching and research on information technology, with new posts for lecturers, and 2,200 new places for students. 

