Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060029.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------


Make politics more local
We will put neighbourhoods in charge of planning the way their communities develop, withincentives in favour of sustainable development. We will make it easier for everyone to get ontothe housing ladder. We will give individuals and local government much more power, allowcommunities to take control of vital services, and give people the chance to have a powerful,elected mayor in England’s largest cities.

Over the last forty years, governments ofall colours have been guilty of weakeninglocal government. But what was a gradualcentralisation has accelerated dramaticallyunder Labour. Bureaucratic control hasreplaced democratic accountability. Thewishes of local people are second-guessedby bureaucrats; the activities of councils aremicro-managed by unelected quangos. Thishoarding of power by distant politicians andunaccountable officials in Whitehall hasdamaged society by eroding trust.We believe that the more responsibility yougive people, the more responsibly they behave.That is why we are so determined to givepeople much more power and control overtheir lives. Citizens themselves should have adirect say over how they are governed – butnot through bureaucratic consultations orphoney citizens juries, which never changeanything. We need a totally different approachto governing, one that involves people inmaking the decisions that affect them. This iswhat we call collaborative democracy – people
taking the kind of powers that until now havebeen exercised only by governments. Sowe want to pass power down to people – toindividuals where we can. But it is not alwayspossible to give power to individuals, and inthose cases we need to push power down to themost appropriate local level: neighbourhood,community and local government.Put communities in chargeof planningThe planning system is vital for a strongeconomy, for an attractive and sustainableenvironment, and for a successful democracy.A Conservative government will introduce anew ‘open source’ planning system. This willmean that people in each neighbourhood willbe able to specify what kind of developmentthey want to see in their area. Theseneighbourhood plans will be consolidated intoa local plan.
We will abolish the entire bureaucratic andundemocratic tier of regional planning,including the Regional Spatial Strategies andbuilding targets.Developers will have to pay a tariff to thelocal authority to compensate the communityfor loss of amenity and costs of additionalinfrastructure. The tariff will replace thepayments and levies on development that havegrown up under Labour. A portion of this tariffwill be kept by the neighbourhoods in which agiven development takes place, providing clearincentives for communities which go for growth.Significant local projects, like new housingestates, will have to be designed through acollaborative process that has involved theneighbourhood. Immediate neighbours willhave a new role – with a faster approvalsprocess for planning applications whereneighbours raise no objections.At the national level, for all forms ofdevelopment, we will publish and presentto Parliament for debate a simple andconsolidated national planning framework,which will set out national economic andenvironmental priorities.To give communities greater control overplanning, we will:• abolish the power of planning inspectorsto rewrite local plans;• amend the ‘Use Classes Order’ so that peoplecan use buildings for any purpose allowed inthe local plan;• limit appeals against local planning decisionsto cases that involve abuse of process orfailure to apply the local plan;• encourage county councils and unitaryauthorities to compile infrastructure plans;• give local planning authorities and otherpublic authorities a duty to co-operate withone another; and,• allow neighbourhoods to stop the practice of‘garden grabbing’.Deliver more affordable homesWe want to create a property-owningdemocracy where everyone has the chanceto own their own home. That is why we willpermanently raise the stamp duty threshold to£250,000 for first-time buyers, meaning nineout of ten of them will pay no tax on their firsthome purchase.Communities should benefit when they chooseto develop sustainably, so we will matchpound-for-pound the council tax receipts thatlocal authorities receive from new homes toencourage sensitive local development. Wewill create new local housing trusts to allowcommunities to grant planning permissionfor new housing within villages and towns
– so that the benefits of development remainwithin the local area. We will also abolishHome Information Packs, which have madea significant contribution to problems in ourhousing market.A Conservative government will make it easierfor social tenants to own or part-own theirhome. We will:• introduce a ‘foot on the ladder’programme to offer an equity stake togood social tenants, which can be cashedin when they move out of social rentedaccommodation;• pilot a new ‘right to move’ scheme andintroduce a nationwide social home swapprogramme, so social tenants can transfertheir tenancy to another home or part of thecountry; and,• respect the tenures and rents of socialhousing tenants.We will implement a range of measuresto address the problems of the homeless,including introducing more accurate streetcounts and ensuring a Minister in each relevantdepartment has homelessness in their brief.Give people more power andcontrol over their livesWe have set out our plans to give more powerto people over the way they are policed, theschools their children go to and the hospitalsthey are treated in. But, in addition, we want togive individuals more direct control over howthey are governed. So, mirroring our reformsat the national level, we will give residents thepower to instigate local referendums on anylocal issue if 5 per cent of the local populationsign up, and they will also be able to veto anyproposed high council tax increases. We willstop Labour’s plans to impose supplementarybusiness rates on firms if a majority do not givetheir consent.Nothing underlines the powerlessness thatmany communities feel more than the lossof essential services, like post offices andpubs, because of decisions made by distantbureaucrats. Our new ‘community right tobuy’ scheme will give local people the powerto protect any community assets that arethreatened with closure. In addition, we will:• give people a ‘right to bid’ to run anycommunity service instead of the state; and,• reform the governance arrangements infootball to enable co-operative ownershipmodels to be established by supporters.We will give democratically accountable localgovernment much greater power to improvetheir citizens’ lives by:• giving local councils a ‘general power ofcompetence’, so that they have explicitauthority to do what is necessary to improvetheir communities;
• end ring-fencing so that funding can bespent on local priorities;• scrapping the hundreds of process targetsLabour have imposed on councils;• ending the bureaucratic inspection regimethat stops councils focusing on residents’main concerns;• scrapping Labour’s uncompleted plans toimpose unwieldy and expensive unitarycouncils and to force the regionalisation ofthe fire service;• ending the ‘predetermination rules’ thatprevent councillors speaking up aboutissues that they have campaigned on; and,• encouraging the greater use of ward budgetsfor councillors.We have seen that a single municipal leadercan inject dynamism and ambition into theircommunities. So, initially, we will give thecitizens in each of England’s twelve largestcities the chance of having an elected mayor.Big decisions should be made by those whoare democratically accountable, not by remoteand costly quangos. We will abolish theGovernment Office for London as part of ourplan to devolve more power downwards to theLondon Boroughs and the Mayor of London.Decentralising control must go hand in handwith creating much greater transparency inlocal government. Power without informationis not enough. We will implement fullythe Sustainable Communities Act, andreintroduce the Sustainable Communities Act(Amendment) Bill as government legislation, togive people greater information on, and controlover, what is being spent by each governmentagency in their area.Our plans to decentralise power will onlywork properly if there is a strong, independentand vibrant local media to hold local authoritiesto account. We will sweep away the rules thatstop local newspapers owning other localmedia platforms and create a new networkof local television stations. And we will tightenthe rules on taxpayer-funded publicity spendingby town halls.

