Text ID:
uk_pm_el_83_228020021.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 1983
-------------------------------------

The environment

Labour believes that the countryside should be preserved and enhanced as a source of recreation for town and country dwellers alike and as a habitat for wild creatures and plants. Everyone has a right to a decent living and working environment.

We intend to monitor closely - and publicly - the nation's progress in improving the environment. We shall therefore present to parliament each year a major report on the 'State of the Environment'. We will also safeguard our heritage by:

    Supporting rights of access to common land. We will stop landed interests from preventing access for anglers;
    Strengthening the planning laws to ensure that the countryside is protected from damaging development;
    Strengthening the legislation which protects endangered species;
    Providing increased resources so that the Nature Conservancy Council and Countryside Commission can function effectively;
    Enacting a new Wildlife and Countryside Act and providing proper protection for sites of special scientific interests. 

We will also act to curb pollution. We will:

    Proceed with the implementation of the 1974 Control of Pollution Act.
    Undertake a comprehensive review of the effectiveness of the present machinery and powers on pollution control.
    Eliminate lead in petrol by setting a date after which all new cars will be required to use only lead-free petrol. The interests of motorists will be safeguarded.
    Restore those environmental agencies abolished by the Tories with a responsibility for monitoring air and noise pollution.
    Develop a programme for eliminating toxic substances from our living and working environments. 

We will reform the water industry by repealing the Tories' Water Act and restoring democratic accountability in the industry. We will re-establish a national authority charged with responsibility for the strategic planning and use of all water resources. The canal system will be brought under a new national authority, so that it can be developed and maintained as an essential water resource. We will also consider how best to provide help, for those on low incomes, with paying their water rates.

