
UKIP Leader slams Tory paper attack on Thanet

Published Mar 29, 2015

1017739_753280291386243_8538108291027881607_n.jpgUKIP Leader and parliamentary candidate for South Thanet, Nigel Farage, has slammed the Tory-supporting Times newspaper for its scathing attack on South Thanet and its residents today.

Writing in the Sunday Times newspaper, Camilla Long, the granddaughter of a Tory peer, describe the area as “bilious”, “grubby” and “a small nodule of erupted spleen”. Her outburst has been likened to that of another Times writer, Matthew Parris, who described Clacton-on-Sea as “rancid” just before UKIP’s Douglas Carswell won the by-election there last year.

Long described South Thanet areas as “Chernobyl-like”, and the “English Defence League on sea”, while simultaneously offering her praise of the Conservative Candidate Craig Mackinlay, despite the area having had both a Labour council and a Conservative MP for the past five years.

Nigel Farage MEP, who is campaigning tirelessly to put South Thanet back on the map, said today: “This is yet another disgusting attack on the areas that have been left behind by successive Labour and Conservative governments and councils. The Thanet areas are not just some of the most beautiful in our country, but these places have so much to offer if only the establishment parties would stop their elitist sneering.

"Ms. Long is right about one thing though – some parts of the constituency have been awfully let down by their successive Tory MPs and a Labour-run council, and it's only by electing UKIP to council and parliament that Thanet will get a fair showing, and the right people who are willing to put in the time and effort to make it great again.”

“My job from here on out is very simple. I’m going to stand up to the establishment on behalf of this area. These Tory-supporting papers can endorse whomever they want. It won’t make the slightest difference to people around here, who know that a vote for UKIP is a vote for real change.”
