Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030081.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

SNP wants of Scots budget 'smash and grab'
Tue, 13/04/2010 - 09:56

SNP Depute Leader and Health Secretary Nicola Sturgeon MSP joined the SNP's candidate in Falkirk, John McNally on a visit to a local dental surgery to highlight the impact cuts by the UK Government will have on Scotlands public services.

Ms Sturgeon hit out at the cuts agendas of the London Parties  both of whom plan a smash and grab on Scotlands budget for frontline services. She said the only way to save Scotlands NHS was to elect a local SNP champion.

Commenting, Ms Sturgeon said:

The cuts agendas of the London parties are the biggest threat to Scotlands health services in a generation.

"Since 2007, the SNP Scottish Government have made real progress in improving Scotland's health. We've cut waiting times, met key targets for cancer treatment, widened access to dentists and we're phasing out prescription charges.

But this progress is threatened by the cuts agendas of the London parties who would rather blow billions on weapons of mass destruction than protect Scotlands hospitals, schools and police services.

Labour and Tories  the Tweedledum and Tweedledee of Westminster politics  are both planning massive cuts. Labour have already slashed the Scottish budget by 400m while the Tories have a special Cameron Cut in the pipeline.

Only SNP MPs will fight to save Scotlands NHS from Londons dismal decade. The only way to protect this national treasure is to elect a local champion.

SNP Falkirk candidate, Cllr John McNally added:

Improvements in health care provision have been one of the biggest achievements of the SNP Government  it simply must not be jeopardised by the misguided priorities of the London parties.

Our message at this election is clear: more votes mean more nats and more nats mean less cuts.

Scotland deserves better than a dismal decade.

The number of dentists in Scotland has reached a record high with a 6% increase in dentists numbers in 2009 to 2739 dentists.

Under the SNP Government over 500 dental students are in receipt of the dental bursary which commits them to working for up to 5 years in NHS dental services in Scotland on qualification.
Filed under:

    Health
    Westminster


