Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030095.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

Huge boost for green economy in Angus
Sat, 17/04/2010 - 11:29

Andrew Welsh MSP and SNP candidate for Angus, Mike Weir, have both welcomed news of a major Scottish Government grant for
Montrose Port Authority.

The 3.2m investment, announced by Transport Minister Stewart Stevenson, will allow construction of a new deep water berth facility. The additional shipping services that will be able to leave Montrose as a result will reduce lorry traffic on Scotlands roads to the tune of 1 million miles a year.

Mike Weir, the SNPs Westminster candidate for Angus, said:

This is very good news for Montrose and for Angus. This major investment by the SNP government will significantly increase the number of shipping services that can be operated out of Montrose to Scotland, England and Europe. The new facility will be welcomed by local businesses, whether in agriculture, oil or other sectors, and many are already signing up to use it.

This investment will greatly assist local economic recovery, boosting jobs and supporting business. It is a demonstration of the SNP governments commitment to ensuring that Montrose and Angus are able to continue to play a key role in Scotlands economic success

SNP MSP for Angus, Andrew Welsh, added:

The great potential that Montrose port already has to help Scotland meet our world-leading climate change targets will be significantly enhanced by this investment. The new deep water berth facility will allow local businesses to transfer their freight from road to water and significantly reduce road transport carbon emissions as a result. It is a major boost to developing the low carbon economy that is so essential to Scotlands future

Whats more, the removal of the equivalent of 130 lorry journeys a week from the roads around Montrose will improve the quality of the local environment, reducing noise and emissions and helping locals and visitors alike to get even more pleasure from our Angus scenery.

The Scottish Government announcement can be read at
http://www.scotland.gov.uk/News/Releases/2010/04/16102521
Filed under:

    Holyrood


