Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228010056.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Supporting Farming and Fisheries

Many communities are highly dependent on a single local industry. In many areas, this means fishing or agriculture. Government could be doing much more to support both. We have already published an emergency programme to help farmers and businesses who have suffered during the foot and mouth crisis. On other issues we will:

    Reform the Common Agricultural Policy. Reform is long overdue. We will promote the sustainability of agriculture and redirect support so that small and family farms are more effectively supported. We will seek to refocus payments on achieving public environmental and social goals rather than encouraging unnecessary production while maintaining the current overall level of support for farmers and rural areas. We will work within Europe to limit bureaucracy by administering CAP payments through a single Countryside Management Contract which would include stewardship and agri-environment schemes as well as support for diversification, organic farming and farmers’ co-operatives.

    Protect tenant farmers by funding a targeted early retirement and new entrant scheme and by reassessing diversification schemes to allow tenants more scope to diversify.

    Encourage organic farming by better support for transition from current methods of farming.

    Reform the present Common Fisheries Policy. The main objective of fisheries policy must be to integrate the long-term conservation of the marine environment with the socio-economic interests of local communities. We want to establish Regional Management Committees through which fishermen would work with scientists and government to agree sustainable and fairly enforced ‘zonal management’ for their local fisheries. We will make the case for establishing the 6-12 mile fishing limit as a permanent feature of policy, and work with other fishing nations to agree to extend the national protection zones out to 24 miles. We will strengthen and update the regulatory framework for Seas Fisheries Committees and take low impact fishing methods out of the quota system altogether.

    Abolish the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food with its numerous conflicts of interest which have prevented it from effectively addressing issues such as BSE, GM Crops, and Foot and Mouth.  Instead, we will create a Ministry for Rural Affairs to promote the interests of the countryside as a whole.  An Agricultural Ombudsman will protect farming, and food safety issues will be the responsibility of the Department of Health and the Food Standards Agency.

