Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040117.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Mass Murderers, Torturers and Rapists All Welcome in Labours Enriched Britain
April 8, 2010

rawanda-genocide01-smallThe Labour government has allowed more than 500 suspected war criminals to live in Britain, an act of criminal irresponsibility that reflects its abject failure where matters of public safety and morality are concerned.

The human rights group, Aegis Trust, which campaigns against genocide and crimes against humanity, obtained figures from the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Genocide Prevention which reveal that since 2005 no fewer than 513 war crimes suspects have been investigated by the Governments Border Agency, resulting in over 50 cases being referred to the Metropolitan Police.

rawanda-genocide02-smallYet, despite irrefutable evidence in some cases, not a single prosecution has taken place.

The alleged suspects, often posing as asylum seekers, include:

 Afghan warlords and high ranking officers from that countrys formerly Communist run security service.

 Iraqi torturers formerly employed by Saddam Husseins regime.

 Zimbabwean Criminal Investigations Office staff, previously employed by Robert Mugabe, and said to be implicated in murder and torture.

 A Congolese chief of police whom, it is alleged, has even confessed his crimes in the British media.

 Sudanese Islamic Janjaweed leaders involved in atrocities against Christian rebels.

 Sri Lankan Tamil Tigers terror suspects.

 Members of Sierra Leones Mosquito group  notorious for its acts of amputation, mutilation and rape against its opponents.

 Officers in Charles Taylors army in Liberia alleged to have been involved in murder and torture.

 At least one former Somali Muslim warlord.

 At least four senior Rwandan mass murder suspects, who were arrested in Britain on suspicion of playing key roles in the genocide of Tutsis and Hutus in 1994; all four subsequently successfully appealed against extradition. The High Court ruled that there was a real risk they would suffer a flagrant denial of justice if returned to Rwanda.

These are just some of the alleged criminals whom the Labour regime has declined to either prosecute or deport and who, for all you know, may be living in your street.

The fact is, of course, that Labour, following the earlier example of the Conservative Party, has done precious little to vet any asylum-seeker  so who knows how many murderers, rapists, fraudsters or paedophiles they have granted a right of residence.

The British National Party, unlike the Lib-Lab-Cons, believes the safety of Britons, particularly of our children, should not be compromised, and that this abuse by foreign criminals must be ended.

Posted in National News | Comments (164)

