Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228060064.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

THE RAILWAYS

We believe that the railways can play a bigger part in responding to Britain's growing transport needs, and are investing accordingly Next year alone, British Rail's external finance will top £2,000 million. The new Passenger's Charter will help to raise the quality of service. For the first time ever performance targets will be set, widely published and rigorously monitored; fare levels will reflect the standards set; and discounts will be paid to regular travellers where performance targets are not met.

We believe that the best way to produce profound and lasting improvements on the railways is to end BR's state monopoly We want to restore the pride and local commitment that died with nationalisation. We want to give the private sector the opportunity to operate existing rail services and introduce new ones, for both passengers and freight.

A significant number of companies have already said that they want to introduce new railway services as soon as the monopoly is ended. We will give them that chance.

Our plans for the railways are designed to bring better services for all passengers as rapidly as possible. We believe that franchising provides the best way of achieving that. Long term, as performance improves and services become more commercially attractive as a result of bringing in private sector disciplines, it will make sense to consider whether some services can be sold outright.

In the next Parliament:

    By franchising, we will give the private sector the fullest opportunity to operate existing passenger railway services.
    Required standards of punctuality, reliability and quality of service will be specified by franchises; subsidy will continue to be provided where necessary; arrangements to sustain the current national network of services will be maintained; and through-ticketing will be required.
    A new Rail Regulator - who will ensure that all companies have fair access to the track - will award the franchises and make sure that the franchisees honour the terms of the contract.
    BR's accounting systems and internal structures will be reorganised. One part of BR will continue to be responsible for all track and infrastructure. The operating side of BR will continue to provide passenger services until they are franchised out to the private sector.
    The franchise areas will be decided only after technical discussions with BR. But our aim will be to franchise out services in such a way as to reflect regional and local identity and make operating sense. We want to recover a sense of pride in our railways and to recapture the spirit of the old regional companies.
    We will sell BR's freight operations outright. We will also sell its parcels business.
    We will be prepared to sell stations - which we want to be centres of activity - either to franchisees or independent companies.
    The Railway Inspectorate will be given full powers to ensure the highest standards of safety. 

