Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060008.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

change the economy | CREATE A MORE BALANCED ECONOMY	

Create a more balanced economy

We will create the conditions for higher exports, business investment and saving as a share of GDP.For the last decade, growth has been toodependent on government spending and debtfuelledconsumption. More than half of the newjobs created were driven by public spending.Household savings collapsed, and the UK hasthe lowest investment as a share of GDP ofany G7 country. Our share of world exportshas fallen by almost a third. A sustainablerecovery must be driven by growth in exportsand business investment, and through a betterenvironment for wealth creation.Make Britain the leading hi-tech exporter in Europe
We will implement key recommendations fromSir James Dyson’s Review into how to achieveour goal of making Britain Europe’s leadinghi-tech exporter, including:encouraging t • he establishment ofjoint university-business research anddevelopment institutes;• initiating a multi-year Science and ResearchBudget to provide a stable investment climatefor Research Councils;
• creating a better focus on Science,Technology, Engineering and Maths(STEM) subjects in schools; and,• establishing a new prize for engineering.Research and development tax credits will beimproved and refocused on hi-tech companies,small businesses and new start-ups. At thesame time, we will give strong backing to thegrowth industries that generate high-qualityjobs around the country.We will improve the performance of UKTrade and Investment with a renewed focuson high priority sectors and markets wherethe return on taxpayers’ money is highest. Wewill regularly compare government support forexporters and inward investment against theservices provided by our competitors. We willwork for the successful conclusion of the Dohatrade round and support bilateral free tradenegotiations between the European Union (EU)and other countries.

Encourage saving and investment
