Poll shows Labour branded 'out of touch'
Wed, 25/03/2015 - 13:17

A new YouGov poll in today’s Times has laid bare the scale of Jim Murphy’s problems, after finding a huge majority of people in Scotland believe Labour has lost touch.

The large UK-wide poll had a Scottish subsample of 633 people and found that an astonishing 69 per cent of respondents in Scotland believe that ‘Labour has seriously lost touch with ordinary working people’.

In contrast, the same poll found that 51 per cent of people in Scotland believe that the SNP is standing up for their interests.

The poll also asked whether people would vote to remain in the EU or leave in a future referendum, with 53 per cent of people in Scotland saying they would vote to stay in the EU – more than any other part of the UK – and 25 per cent indicating they would vote to leave. The same poll also found that 70 per cent of people in Scotland believe that UKIP is a part for ‘oddballs and extremists’.

Westminster Leader Angus Robertson MP:

“Jim Murphy’s reverse honeymoon is going from bad to worse as this poll shows that an incredible 69 per cent of people in Scotland believe that Labour has lost touch with ordinary working people.

“The lack of progress being made by Labour shows that they are still paying the price of working hand in glove with the Tories during the referendum, and for lining up with them at Westminster to vote for further austerity.

“As the election gets closer, this poll is another indication of the strong support for the SNP that we are seeing in communities across Scotland, and shows that a majority of people in Scotland know that the SNP will stand up for their interests.

“The fact that people in Scotland would overwhelmingly vote to remain in the EU also shows that people recognise the real danger that comes from the Westminster establishment's threats of withdrawal, and underlines why any referendum on membership must have the backing of each of the UK's four nations.

“Electing more anti-Tory MPs than Tory MPs at the election means that we can lock David Cameron out of Downing Street. And electing a strong team of SNP MPs will also ensure that Scotland has real power at Westminster to ensure that Scottish interests are served and progressive politics delivered across the UK.”
