Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060043.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

promote our national interest | AN OPEN AND DEMOCRATIC EUROPE

An open and democratic Europe
We will be positive members of the European Union but we are clear that there should be nofurther extension of the EU’s power over the UK without the British people’s consent. We willensure that by law no future government can hand over areas of power to the EU or join theEuro without a referendum of the British people. We will work to bring back key powers overlegal rights, criminal justice and social and employment legislation to the UK.

The European Union has done much toreconcile the painful division of Europe and tospread democracy and the rule of law acrossour continent. But it should not rest on thoseachievements.European countries need to work together toboost global economic growth, fight globalpoverty, and combat global climate change.The European Union has a crucial part to playin enabling the countries of Europe to meetthese great challenges of the 21st century. AConservative government will play an activeand energetic role in the European Union toadvance these causes.We will stand for open markets, and a strongtransatlantic relationship; for an EU that looksout to the world, and that builds strong andopen relations with rising powers like Chinaand India. And, like every other Member State,we will fight our corner to promote ournational interests.

We believe Britain’s interests are best servedby membership of a European Union that is anassociation of its Member States. We will neverallow Britain to slide into a federal Europe.Labour’s ratification of the Lisbon Treatywithout the consent of the British people hasbeen a betrayal of this country’s democratictraditions. In government, we will put in placea number of measures to make sure thisshameful episode can never happen again.Restore democratic controlIn future, the British people must have theirsay on any transfer of powers to the EuropeanUnion. We will amend the 1972 EuropeanCommunities Act so that any proposed futureTreaty that transferred areas of power, orcompetences, would be subject to a referendum– a ‘referendum lock’. A Conservativegovernment would never take the UK intothe Euro. Our amendment to the 1972 Act willprevent any future government from doingso without a referendum.

Unlike other European countries, the UKdoes not have a written constitution. We willintroduce a United Kingdom Sovereignty Billto make it clear that ultimate authority stays inthis country, in our Parliament.The Lisbon Treaty contains a number of socalled‘ratchet clauses’, which allow the powersof the EU to expand in the future without anew Treaty. We do not believe that any ofthese ‘ratchet clauses’ should be used to handover more powers from Britain to the EU. Soa Conservative government will not agree tothe UK’s participation in the establishment of aEuropean Public Prosecutor’s Office or permitits jurisdiction over the UK. We will change the1972 Act so that an Act of Parliament would berequired before any ‘ratchet clause’ could beused. Additionally, the use of a major ‘ratchetclause’ which amounted to the transfer of anarea of power to the EU would be subject to areferendum.The steady and unaccountable intrusion ofthe European Union into almost every aspectof our lives has gone too far. A Conservativegovernment will negotiate for three specificguarantees – on the Charter of FundamentalRights, on criminal justice, and on social andemployment legislation – with our Europeanpartners to return powers that we believeshould reside with the UK, not the EU. Weseek a mandate to negotiate the return of thesepowers from the EU to the UK.

