Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228050011.txt

Party Manifesto: Green (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

housing
Promoting affordabilityand sustainabilityWe would:• Resume direct investment in counciland other social housing and allow localauthorities to use receipts from sales to fundnew affordable accommodation. In particular,while the building trade remains depressedbecause of the recession we would provide£2bn in 2010 rising to £4bn in 2011 tolocal authorities to expand social housing,mainly through conversion and renovation,and create 80,000 jobs.• There are about one million empty homes.Halve this number through empty propertyuse orders.• Provide more rights for homeless people,giving local authorities the same duties withregard to single people and childless couplesas to families, and ending the practice ofdeclaring people ‘intentionally homeless’.• Take steps to ensure that development ismore evenly distributed across the whole ofthe country, so reducing pressure on housingin the South East in particular.• Minimise encroachment onto undeveloped‘greenfield sites’ wherever possible byreusing previously developed sites that havefallen into disuse .• End the right to buy and introduce theright to rent. People facing severe difficultieswith paying their mortgage and facingrepossession should have a right to rent theirexisting home as council housing, analogousbut opposite to the Tory ‘right to buy’.We would make up to £2bn per annumavailable to local authorities to support‘right to rent.’• Introduce a free home insulationprogramme for all homes that need it, withpriority for pensioners and those living infuel poverty, aiming to insulate 4 millionhomes every year. Such a programme wouldcost £2bn in 2010 rising to £4bn a yearand create 80,000 jobs.• Introduce incentives totalling £2bnper annum to encourage homes to becomemore energy self-sufficient by aiming for1,000,000 solar roofs, and support generousfeed-in tariffs for micro-generation, creating40,000 jobs in the installation industries.• Abolish standing charges on fuel bills andset tariffs to favour smaller consumers.• Set building regulations to requireexcellent energy standards on a points-basedsystem, which will cover embodied energyof building materials, energy used inconstruction, energy consumption in use,on-site energy generation and use of heatdistribution networks.• Increase the tax-free amount on the ‘Rent a
Room’ scheme from £4,250 to £9,000a year. This would reduce repossessions,provide more affordable housing and makebetter use of the existing housing stock.• Support self-build social co-operatives.• Accept that climate change will mean thatsome housing cannot be protected fromflooding in a sustainable way, and assistfinancially those whose homes becomeuninhabitable. Also invest £1bn in sustainableflood defences and sustainable drainagesystems, creating 20,000 jobs, and ensurethat insurance is available for flooding.• Oppose new arm’s length managementorganisations and ensure genuine tenantparticipation in existing ones.• Ensure that new housing proposals arebased on independent housing needs surveys.Commercial house builders and theirrepresentatives should not be involved inthe process.

Greens have real experience ofrunning a free insulation schemeGreen Councillors in Kirklees worked inpartnership with energy companies toprovide free insulation for households inKirklees, Yorkshire, in a scheme that hascreated more than 128 jobs and newtraining facilities. The scheme cost £20mover three years, and aims to insulate40,000–60,000 homes in total.

