Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040200.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP

The Tory/Labour Nightmare: NHS Deficit Is 620 Million, but Afghanistan War Costs 5 Billion
May 3, 2010 - By BNP News

A new report has shown that the National Health Service is so underfunded that thousands of patients are being treated by nurses instead of doctors because they are cheaper to employ  while the Labour/Tory/Lib Dem/UKIP-supported war in Afghanistan continues to consume at least 5 billion per year.

The report, published in the Daily Mail, revealed that the out-of-hours doctor shortage is so severe that in the city of Derby, only three General Practitioners are on standby for the million strong population.

In four other trusts, there are more nurses on overnight shifts than doctors.

According to the report, in seven more NHS trusts, the number of doctors treating out-of-hours patients is equal to the number of nurses.

Taken together, these trusts are responsible for millions of people.

The problems origin lies with the severe and deliberate underfunding of the NHS by successive Labour and Tory regimes.

A doctors career is highly stressful and is compromised of long hours, made harder by the NHSs original demand that all its doctors work out-of-hours at night and over weekends in shifts.

Any normal society demanding such a sacrifice from its medical staff would ensure that they are properly compensated.

However, in Labour and Tory-controlled Britain, more money is spent on foreign aid and fighting illegal foreign wars than on paying our own people decent wages.

As a result, large numbers of doctors in the NHS took up a Government offer to opt out of their out-of-hours care obligation in a move which was designed to save money.

The Government did not understand that it was more money, not cuts, which was what the NHS needed. As a result, 90 percent of NHS doctors opted out, creating the current crisis.

As a result, many Primary Care Trusts (PCTs) now import locum doctors from overseas to work at night and over weekends.

As the Daily Mail reported, the poor quality service was highlighted last year when an exhausted German doctor killed a pensioner on his first shift in Britain.

The German doctor was actually a Nigerian, a fact the Daily Mail declined to point out.

The real issue remains, however, that of chronic underfunding. Some 20 percent of NHS trusts have been forced to cut funding for the out-of-hours service at the beginning of April this year.

The scandalous situation whereby British people are forced to accept underfunding and substandard public services while untold billions are spent on foreign aid and illegal wars, must come to a halt.

Only the British National Party seeks an end to the budgetary imbalance.

Only the BNP seeks an immediate end to British involvement in the Afghanistan war and an equally immediate end to foreign aid.

British people have the right to have their own tax money spent on services in Britain first  and that includes compensating doctors and nurses for working graveyard shifts.

    Digg this!
    Share this on Facebook
    Tweet This!
    Post this to MySpace
    Stumble upon something good? Share it on StumbleUpon
    Send this page to Print Friendly
    Email this to a friend?
    Share this on Wikio
    Share this on del.icio.us
    Share this on Linkedin
    Add this to Google Bookmarks
    Buzz up!
    Share this on FriendFeed
    Share this on Reddit


vote
nowBuzz up! 	
digg 	
	

