Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040129.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Vote Tory, Labour or Lib Dem  And Lose Your Job, Those Parties Boast
April 11, 2010

unemployment-three-partiesIt is official: a Labour, Tory or Lib Dem government will result in job losses, according to leading figures in those parties.

The frank admission that job losses are inevitable came during the course of the week when the topic of budget cutbacks came up.

Labours Treasury Minister Stephen Timms said on record that his partys plan to make 15 billion in efficiency savings would lead to job losses.

Mr Timms told the BBCs Daily Politics show that There will be some job losses, without a doubt.

Top Conservative adviser, Sir Peter Gershon, was then quoted in the Financial Times describing how he had drawn up a plan for the Tories which would cut 12 billion from the public sector.

This would, the Financial Times said, mean that anywhere between 20,000 and 40,000 jobs would be cut.

Conservative party leader David Cameron confirmed the plan on BBC Radio 4s Today programme, saying the savings were do-able and deliverable.

Lib Dem Foreign Affairs Spokesman Ed Davey told the BBC that Britain had a financial millstone around its neck and needed to reduce debt levels.

Over the lifetime of the next Parliament.of course there are going to be some job losses, he said.

The Westminster criminal parties are lying when they claim that only public sector jobs will be affected. Thousands of private sector companies depend on Government contracts for their survival, and any reduction in the central Governments infrastructure has an inevitable knock-on effect across the private sector.

The core of the problem is the public sector net debt, which according to the Office for National Statistics, expressed as a percentage of gross domestic product (GDP), was 60.3 percent at the end of February 2010 compared with 50.5 percent at the end of February 2009. Net debt was 857.5 billion at the end of February compared with 712.4 billion a year earlier.

The British National Partys solution to this crisis is not to make more British people unemployed, but to cut expenditure in all sectors which are not in this nations interests.

For example, the BNP would cut the annual 9 billion foreign aid budget. The Tory and Labour parties have committed to increasing that budget to 13 billion per year, despite the mounting public debt.

The BNP would also end the war in Afghanistan, which now costs the British taxpayers some 5 billion per year. This is in addition to the estimated 49 billion spent fighting the illegal and immoral war in Iraq.

The BNP would also end the annual 60.1 billion paid over to the European Union as Britains membership fees for belonging to that organisation.

The BNP would also end the asylum racket which costs the British taxpayer around 4 billion per year for housing, benefits and other expenses.

The BNP would also end the immigration swindle, which by MigrationwatchUK estimates, costs the British taxpayers around 13 billion per year.

The BNP would also look to recoup the hundreds of billions paid out to the private bankers who invested all their resources into the failed Third World immigrant subprime housing market in America.

Once all of these financial haemorrhages have been halted, a BNP government would start with a programme to educate and provide skills to our own people so that the eight million economically inactive population could once again enter the employment market.

Posted in National News | Comments (105)

