Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228020012.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

The Labour Party Manifesto 2010A green future for Britain

A green recovery

The challenge for Britain

To be on track for the transition to a low-carboneconomy in a way that is fair, secure and helps createthe jobs of the future, as we protect and enhance ournatural environment and quality of life. For the Toriesthe environment has been all about image — by failingto deliver on our renewable energy targets, reversingour planning reforms and giving up on our newindustrial strategy, they would put Labour’s low-carbonrevolution in jeopardy.The next stage of national renewal• Achieve around 40 per cent low-carbon electricity by2020 and create 400,000 new green jobs by 2015.• Make greener living easier and fairer through ‘pay asyou save’ home energy insulation, energy-bill discountsfor pensioners and requiring landlords to properlyinsulate rented homes.• Move towards a ‘zero waste’ Britain, banningrecyclable and biodegradable materials from landfill.• Link together new protected areas of habitat; maintainthe Green Belt; increase forest and woodland areas.• Ensure fairness for food producers through EU reformand a Supermarkets Ombudsman; and support postoffices, shops and pubs in rural communities.

Britain is a transitioneconomy: from high carbonto low carbon. To avert thecatastrophe of uncheckedclimate change we have begunthe shift to a different kind ofeconomic future. Our vision isof a society where economicprosperity and quality of lifecome not from exploiting thenatural world but from itsdefence.This is a huge challenge,not just for Britain but forthe world. Living within ourenvironmental means willrequire a dramatic shift usingresources more efficiently andreducing waste. We will needto find new ways of balancingthe multiple uses of land:safeguarding food security atthe same time as enriching ournatural environment; protectingdistinctive landscapes whileenabling environmentallysensitive development.Labour’s environmental agendareflects our values. Only activegovernment can shape marketsto prioritise green growth andjob creation. Environmentalsustainability cannot be left toindividuals and businesses actingalone. We believe that peoplehave the right to a healthyenvironment. That means givingeveryone access to the beautyand amenity of natural places;we want to make it easier to livein a sustainable way whateveryour standard of living.We believe in local communityaction – enabling both electedcouncils and community andsocial enterprises to provideenvironmental benefits to localpeople. We are internationaliststoo: only co-operative globalaction – including a strongEuropean Union – can tackleclimate change and protect theworld’s precious environments.Towards a green economyWe have established low-carbonpolicy as one of the principalengines of our economicrecovery and future growth.Our aim is to create 400,000new green jobs by 2015.The foundation of Labour’sapproach has been leadership
on climate change. The 2008Climate Change Act madeBritain the first country in theworld to put its carbon targetsinto law.Internationally, we will continueto work for an ambitious, fairand legally binding climatechange agreement, buildingon the Copenhagen Accord tolimit global temperature risesto two degrees Celsius. In thenext Parliament, we will use ourleadership in the EU to pushfor a strengthening of Europe’s2020 emission reductions from20 to 30 per cent by 2020 aspart of an ambitious globaldeal. This would mean the UKincreasing its current targetof a 34 per cent reduction. Aspart of the negotiations, webelieve Europe should agreea second Kyoto commitmentperiod, provided all countriesare brought within a clear legalframework.Developing countries need helpto adapt, reduce deforestationand emissions. From 2013 wewill provide climate assistanceadditional to our commitmentto provide 0.7 per cent ofnational income in overseas aid.No more than ten per cent ofour aid will be counted towardsclimate finance.Clean energyThis Government isrevolutionising Britain’s energypolicy. We are building a cleanenergy system which willreduce Britain’s dependenceon imported oil and gas andincrease our energy security.We are planning for around40 per cent of our electricity tocome from low-carbon sourcesby 2020 – renewables, nuclearand clean fossil fuels. A majordrive for energy efficiencywill be enhanced by a ‘smartgrid’ using new informationtechnologies.We are committed to meeting15 per cent of our energydemand from renewables by2020. We already have moreoffshore wind-power than anyother country in the world, andour plans could see this increaseup to 40 times, alongside otherrenewable technologies suchas tidal and marine, solar andsustainable bio-energy. Wewill make a decision early inthe next Parliament on thefeasibility of alternative optionsfor a tidal energy project on theSevern, taking full account ofthe environmental impacts.We have taken the decisionsto enable a new generation ofnuclear power stations, and aprogramme of four clean coalplants with carbon captureand storage technology with alevy to fund them. We are theonly Government in the worldto have banned new unabatedcoal-fired power stations.To secure this investment –likely to be worth around £150billion over the next decade –we have reformed the planningsystem to reduce delays formajor infrastructure. We willnow reform the regulatorysystem to provide the certaintythat investors need, and create aGreen Investment Bank to helpfinance this transformation.In stimulating the sustainableuse of resources, we willmove towards a ‘zero waste’Britain, banning recyclableand biodegradable materialsfrom landfill and continuing themove towards universal watermetering in areas of water stress.Our industrial strategy willensure that the drive to greenour economy will create jobsand businesses in Britain in themanufacture and installation oflow-carbon and environmentaltechnologies.

Making green living easierand fairer
Everyone can play their part inreducing carbon emissions andprotecting the environment.Through our requirement thatenergy companies providesubsidies for insulation, we willensure that all household loftsand cavity walls are insulated,where practical, by 2015. By2020 every home will have asmart meter to help controlenergy use and enable cheapertariffs; and we will enable sevenmillion homes to have a fuller‘eco-upgrade’.We will legislate to introduce‘Pay As You Save’ financingschemes under which homeenergyimprovements canbe paid for from the savingsthey generate on energy bills.Already with our new ‘feedintariffs’ and incentive forrenewable heat, householdsfitting micro-generationtechnologies such as solarcan earn financial rewardsfrom the energy they generatethemselves.Labour is determined to endfuel poverty and create a fairenergy system for all. Wewill introduce a new WarmHome Standard for socialhousing and regulate landlordsso that privately rentedaccommodation is properlyinsulated. We have legislated forcompulsory contributions fromenergy companies to protect thevulnerable.To deliver the fairest deal forconsumers, we will ensuregreater competition in theenergy supply market. And wewill review the role of the waterregulator, Ofwat, to ensurecustomers get the best deal andtheir voice is heard in pricesetting.Encouraging greener living isabout communities, not justindividuals. We will devolvepower to local councils to holdenergy companies to accountfor community energy efficiencyprogrammes, and give thempowers to develop local energysystems such as renewablesand district heating. We wantlocal people to have a stakein local renewable energyprojects such as wind farms.So we will support communityorganisations, co-ops and socialenterprises to provide energyservices, meaning lower pricesthrough bulk purchasing, andthe development of small-scalerenewables.We have made it far easierfor everyone to recycle. Fromnine per cent when we cameto office, now 37 per cent ofmunicipal waste is recycled orcomposted. Next we will drivethe introduction of ‘recyclingon the go’, with separatedpublic bins on the street and inshopping centres.We have championed theincreasing desire of manyto grow their own food,encouraging local authoritiesto provide more allotmentsand getting kids to learn aboutgrowing food in school. Wewill work with communityorganisations to make it easierto find and use sites for ‘growyour own’ schemes.Valuing nature foreveryoneFor millions of people theBritish countryside, and theparks and commons of ourtowns and cities, provide solacefrom the pressures of modernlife. The riches of Britain’sbiodiversity – our native species,both rare and commonplace –depend on them.We are committed not only toprotecting but also to enhancingour natural environment, andenabling it to be enjoyed by all.The area of Green Belt hasincreased over the last decade –and we intend to sustain it. Wewill maintain the target that 60per cent of new developmentshould be on brownfield land.

We have created two NationalParks in the New Forest andSouth Downs, and given thepublic a Right to Roam ourmountains, moors and heaths.We will now extend this to thewhole English coastline.Competing pressures – fromgreater food production tohousing and natural flooddefences – are making themanagement of land resourcesever more challenging. We willintroduce a new frameworkfor managing our land thatcan more effectively reconcilethese pressures. We will putforward new areas for protectedlandscape and habitat status,focusing on green corridorsand wildlife networks to linkup existing sites. And we willcommit to increasing thearea covered by forest andwoodland.Our air, rivers and beaches arenow the cleanest they have beensince the height of the industrialrevolution. We will continueto ensure progress. Havingdoubled spending on flooddefence over the last decade wewill bring forward legislationto improve floods and watermanagement.We have banned foxhuntingand animal testing for cosmeticsand tobacco, and we will bringforward further animal welfaremeasures. We will campaigninternationally to end illegaltrading in ivory and to protectspecies such as polar bears, sealsand bluefin tuna, as well as for anEU-wide ban on illegally loggedtimber, banning it domestically ifthis does not succeed.Sustainable farming,healthy foodWe want British farming to beprofitable and competitive. Weneed our farmers to producemore food, nurturing ourcountryside and biodiversity.We will continue to seek reformof the Common AgriculturePolicy (CAP) to facilitate thecreation of fairer and betterfunctioningagriculturalmarkets, enabling farmers toreturn a reasonable profit fromfood production at lower cost tothe consumer.In order to protect farmersand food suppliers from unfairand uncompetitive practices bymajor retailers, we will createa Supermarket Ombudsman.Consumers have the right toknow where food comes from.We are working with the foodindustry and retailers to ensureproper food labelling, includingtougher and clearer ‘country oforigin’ information. This willalso help to level the playingfield for British farmers.An economically viable andenvironmentally sustainablefishing industry is vital for ourcoastal communities. We willpush for fundamental reformof the EU Common FisheriesPolicy.Thriving rural communitiesThose who live in ruralareas are entitled to excellentamenities and services, as arethose who live in towns andcities. Rural communitiesface unique challenges. Weare committed to continuedinvestment in frontline servicesin rural areas.Already £3.9 billion is beingspent on support for the ruraleconomy and we will continueto provide specific supportto rural businesses. We arebuilding 10,000 homes inrural areas up to 2011. We areprotecting rural bus servicesand making it more difficult forrural schools to be closed.Rural businesses andcommunities must have thebroadband connections theyneed. We are committed touniversal broadband access,irrespective of location. Thelevy on fixed phone lines willpay for expansion of fastbroadband connections to ruralareas.
Rural villages should never beleft without essential services.Councils now have to ensurethat the importance of localservices to the communityis taken into account beforegranting planning permissionto change their use, and we willstrengthen this to protect viableshops, pubs and communityfacilities. We will continueto encourage and supportimaginative solutions in ruralcommunities to the provision oflocally owned services.

