Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040013.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP

The Face of Arrogance: Multi-Millionaire Tory MP Claims 13 Pence from Taxpayer
March 14, 2010

ANDREW_MITCHELL-tippexAlongside is the face of typical Tory arrogance: multi-millionaire Conservative MP Andrew Mitchell, who claimed 13 pence for Tipp-Ex as part of his 26,500 annual expenses bill submitted to the taxpayer.

Mr Mitchell also claimed 45 pence for a glue stick, saying that such things were normal expense claims.

The Tory MP, who is the richest man in parliament, and a senior member of David Camerons shadow cabinet team, lives in a 2 million house in Islington.

Mr Mitchells claim for January 21 lists Stationery: tipex (sic) for an amount of 0.13. Another expenses claim is for a 45 pence glue stick.

His MP salary  excluding expenses  is 64,700 per year. According to the register of members interests, Mr Mitchell is also paid 40,000 a year for his role as an adviser to consultancy group Accenture.

In addition, he is a paid director of six subsidiaries of investment bank Lazard & Co.

In 2002 Mr Mitchell received a 630,000 windfall when he sold his stake in El Vino wine merchants.

The arrogant Tory was named last year in the parliamentary expenses scandal when it was revealed that he had claimed 19,000 from the taxpayer for furnishing and decorating his 400,000 constituency home.

In 2004, he also demanded the Commons fees office pay him 2,000 from his second home allowance until it is exhausted.

This is the face of the David Cameron Tory party  a gang of crooks, swindlers, liars and cheats, all determined to perpetuate the wholesale rape and destruction of Britain while lining their pockets with cash.

Is it any wonder that this mob of cheats hates the British National Party so?

A BNP government would abolish the current expenses system  which makes it perfectly legal for people like Tory Boy Mr Mitchell to claim 13 pence from the taxpayer  and introduce firm definite budgets.

In addition, a BNP government would halt the second home swindle. A Travelodge type accommodation unit would be built within walking distance of parliament for all MPs.

Any MP not wishing to use such accommodation would have to pay for their other residences out of their own pocket  just like the rest of society.

Posted in National News | 104 Comments 

