Text ID:
uk_pm_el_83_228020020.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 1983
-------------------------------------

Planning for people

The way we plan the use of our land affects every one of us. It determines where we build our housing, the kind of shopping centres which are available, and where new jobs and factories are sited. We are determined to strengthen local planning and ensure greater participation by ordinary people over the decisions which affect their lives.

The Tories have always put the interests of property developers before the needs of local people. Labour will change this. We will ensure that local authorities are able to decide on the positive use of land in their areas instead of having to respond to the initiatives of developers. And we shall take explicit powers to link land-use planning firmly with the economic and social planning of local authorities.

A key issue in planning at local level is the ownership and use of land. We are determined to stop land speculation and make sensible and comprehensive planning possible. We will establish new land authorities, similar to the successful Land Authority of Wales, with the powers and funds needed to acquire development land - at its current use value - so that local plans can be fulfilled. Our proposals do not apply to owner-occupiers, whose homes and gardens will be safeguarded.

We intend also to widen democratic participation in the planning system by:

    Codifying and extending public rights of consultation, and of appeal against planning decisions;
    Improving access to public planning inquiries and broadening their terms of reference;
    Ensuring that, before the inquiry stage of certain major development proposals, the environmental effects are subject to detailed analysis and the report is published;
    Creating a new fund to help objectors at major public inquiries, with an independent board to decide who should be helped and by how much. 

The inner cities

The decay, squalor and level of unemployment in our inner cities are a national disgrace. Labour is determined to reverse their decline. We will provide more resources, more investment and more jobs. We will act to ensure, through the policies set out in this campaign document, that people living in the inner cities have access to decent homes, health and education - and that there is proper accountability for the police.

In addition to providing a major increase of funds for the Urban Programme, we will:

    Use agreed development plans, negotiated at national level with major firms - public and private - to locate investment and jobs in the inner cities.
    Use regional development agencies to prepare sites, encourage municipal and co-operative enterprise, and help improve transport and other facilities.
    Get local authorities to prepare local economic and social plans. We will also support the development of well-financed local enterprise boards in areas which need them - and enable local authorities to conclude agreed development plans with small and medium-sized local firms. 

