Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228010023.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Reducing Congestion and Pollution

Many people rely on their car. But it is in everyone’s interests to reduce pollution to protect the environment and to provide a viable alternative to the car wherever possible. We will:

    Reward motorists who drive less-polluting vehicles by reducing car tax (Vehicle Excise Duty) on more environmentally friendly cars and motorcycles – abolishing it altogether for the greenest vehicles. We will fund this by increasing the amount of VED charged on the most polluting vehicles.

    Guarantee not to increase the tax per litre of fuel taken by the government, in real terms, in the next Parliament. Should the government receive extra revenue from VAT due to increases in fuel prices, we will use it to ease burdens on the travelling public. Our policies for improving public transport and encouraging less polluting vehicles means that we do not need to increase petrol taxes further in order to meet our environmental objectives.

    Introduce environmental incentives for bus operators. We will reform fuel duty rebates for bus operators so that these are tied more closely to those running more efficient vehicles, particularly those using alternative fuels.

    Reduce road traffic. As part of our policies for reducing pollution and congestion we will introduce legislation to ensure that there are stronger targets for local authorities to reduce road traffic. We will also enable local authorities to raise bonds and establish congestion charging and private non-residential parking taxes to promote use of public transport.

    Reduce freight on the roads through increased use of railways and waterways. We will explore partnership options for developing Britain’s waterways (which are vastly under-utilised at present). We also plan to double the amount of freight carried on Britain’s railways by 2010.

