Text ID:
uk_pm_el_83_228020017.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 1983
-------------------------------------

A new deal for young people

Labour will end the scourge of youth unemployment and prepare young people to take up the jobs that we will create. We will also encourage all young people in employment to join a trade union. Our radical new scheme for young people will establish a new, two year student-traineeship for all 16 and 17 year olds. It will bring together, for the first time, the first years of apprenticeships, other training schemes for young workers and the young unemployed and courses in full-time education in schools and colleges. We will:

    Give to young people who are at work the right to be released to college or school, on full pay. Employers will be given a statutory duty to provide opportunities for their young employees to receive systematic education and training and to release student-trainees at their request. Premiums will be paid to them to recruit young people and provide them with such opportunities.
    Abolish the so-called Young Workers' Scheme, set up by the Tories to reduce youth wages. Labour rejects completely the Tory argument that young people have priced themselves out of jobs.
    Offer all young people without work a place on new youth training schemes, with proper education and training opportunities - which can best be guaranteed by active monitoring by the trade unions; and give them an allowance of at least £30 per week - the level of which will be agreed annually with the TUC - with trade unions being free to negotiate better terms.
    Provide student-trainees, in full-time education, with an educational maintenance allowance of £25 a week, at 1983 prices, covering 52 weeks in a year. 

Labour will establish new rights and provide more resources for youth. We will:

    Expand and improve the youth service so that it meets the social, cultural and recreational needs of young people - especially the unemployed, young women, the ethnic minorities and the young disabled.
    Established a 'youth initiatives fund' to give greater recognition and support to organisations which represent young people's interest.
    Encourage local authorities to support representative local youth councils as one of the means of enabling young people to influence public affairs as young adults.
    Expand funding and staffing for the provision of social studies and education for citizenship in youth clubs and schools with the aim of informing young people of their civil, political and trade union rights and responsibilities as citizens. Accredited trade union representatives should be involved with secondary school students in the context of such education, with full facilities for such representatives at all career days. 

