Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228070011.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Pensions and the Elderly

The UK Independence Party believes that pensioners deserve a share of the Independence Dividend of cash that will flow from Britain's withdrawal from the European Union and we propose to raise the universal state pension by £5 per week. In addition, we recognise the hardship that some elderly people are enduring as a result of a shortage of funds for residential care, and we respect those who wish to remain living in their homes but cannot afford the necessary care. We have therefore allocated a sum of £0.5 billion to assist in these two areas. We will additionally restore the full UK pension to expatriate pensioners whose pensions have been frozen since their departure from the UK at a cost of £0.3 billion.

There is however another issue that the UKIP wishes to address. As the UK population ages, the cost to the exchequer of state pensions is rising, and it is expected to rise considerably after 2010. The UKIP is prepared to face the fact that the current pay-as-you-go system for state pension provision will become difficult to sustain in the long run.

The UKIP will therefore investigate a system in which individuals are required to divert part of their National Insurance contributions into their own private pension funds, and these would replace the state pension on their retirement. As time passes the demand for state pensions would thus gradually diminish, and eventually the state would provide only for those who were unable to provide sufficiently for themselves. The great advantage of private pensions is that they restore the connection between contributions and the eventual payout, and the rate of return to contributions reflects the returns available in financial markets: it cannot be reduced by the government's appropriation of some of the funds. The government's windfall receipts from the sale of airwave licences would be a useful source of funds to make up the initial shortfall in National Insurance revenue. Existing pensioners would be unaffected by this scheme.

Many people in Britain are already members of private occupational pension schemes, or have taken out personal pension policies. This has partly been a response to tax incentives which the present government has largely withdrawn, but the UKIP would restore. This has placed Britain in a far better position than several other EU countries. There is little private pension provision in Germany and Italy, for instance, and so the pension 'overhang' in these countries is much greater than in the UK. It is widely acknowledged that these unfunded pension liabilities will become a serious burden, and this is a concern for Britain as a member of the EU because of the likelihood that we shall be obliged to assist through the EU budget.

