Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030170.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

SNP act as Labour campaign collapses
Sun, 02/05/2010 - 12:44

The SNP is set to seize the initiative in the last few days of the election campaign in Scotland by capitalising on the collapsing Labour vote and the evaporating Lib Dem bounce north of the border, party leader and First Minister Alex Salmond said today (Sat).

The SNP has moved back into a solid second place in the opinion polls, overtaking the Lib Dems after the temporary benefit they were handed through their inclusion in the TV leaders' debates.

Mr Salmond will now lead the SNP's bid to capitalise on the opportunity presented by Labour's UK-wide collapse. He will take part in BBC Scotland's leaders' debate at Edinburgh's Festival Theatre tomorrow, and will then undertake a whistle-stop rail tour of key constituencies on Monday, taking in seats including Dundee West, Ochil, Stirling and Falkirk.

Mr Salmond said:

"The next few days present a massive opportunity for the SNP and for Scotland. The whole basis of Labour's campaign in Scotland has unravelled as their campaign collapses south of the border and voters desert them.

"Their entire strategy in Scotland has been based on stopping the Tories by returning a Labour Government at Westminster, but now that they are obviously a busted flush at UK level their Scottish vote is extremely vulnerable.

"The SNP is best placed to seize on that vulnerability, because we have moved back into a clear second place in the Scottish opinion polls, overtaking the Lib Dems after the temporary bounce they got from the TV leaders' debates."

Mr Salmond added: "The Lib Dems have not been able to sustain that advantage here in Scotland and their support is now evaporating. The SNP is the now party which is best placed to make a real surge in the final days of the campaign and our sights are set on catching Labour. We were shut out of the air war but our ground campaign in the next few days will be the most active in Scotland.

"We are asking the voters who are deserting Labour not just to sit at home, but to come out and vote for SNP local and national champions who will help protect their communities and the country as a whole from the savage cuts agenda of all the London parties.

"Labour, the Tories and the Liberals all plan to slash funding to vital public services in Scotland. But it is now a near certainty that there will be a balanced parliament, which will mean that every single vote in the House of Commons will count.

"That means a strong bloc of SNP MPs, along with our Welsh allies in Plaid Cymru, can help protect our nations from the cuts agenda of the London parties. In the last few days of this campaign, there is everything to play for in Scotland - and if Scots voters want a balanced parliament, redolent with opportunity for Scotland, they should vote SNP."
Filed under:

    Elections
    SNP


