Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228010030.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

Sharing Security; Working for Peace

The Gulf War and its aftermath have shown the crucial need for stronger and more effective world institutions capable of upholding international law and enforcing respect for human rights. Britain must ensure that the Community plays a pivotal role in the construction of a new security order in Europe, following the democratisation of Eastern and Central Europe. New initiatives for disarmament and for sharing security burdens will enable further reductions in levels of armaments to be made without endangering security. On the global stage, a stronger United Nations will be needed to underpin cooperation in tackling the world's problems.

We will:

    Develop common European Community foreign and security policies. This will include a common approach to defence procurement and the gradual integration of Community members' armed forces under a joint military command. The burden of collective security in Western Europe should be shared more equally; we will press for contributions from all nations to the costs of joint forces such as NATO's proposed Rapid Reaction Force - of which Britain will provide almost half.
    Promote democracy and reform in Eastern and Central Europe by coordinating generious economic assistance to countries introducing democracy, guaranteeing human rights and reforming their economies.
    Assist the peaceful evolution of the Commonwealth of Independent States, the former USSR. We will help not just with food and financial aid and technical assistance, but also with the provisino of military resources to shift food and supplies, and with scientific assistance to dismantle nuclear weapons.
    Develop a pan-European security framework. We will encourage the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe to develop monitoring, verification and mediation duties within the continent. We will press for NATO to guarantee the borders of Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hungary and to enter into talks with other governments in the region for similar guarantees.
    Instigate a comprehensive review of UK defence policy which will be dictated by a rigorous analysis of defence needs rather than by fixed monetary targets. The Review will cover the continuing need for contributions to collective security, the value of Britain's remaining extra-European commitments, and the potential for increasing our contribution to UN peacekeeping missions. Given the present hopeful international situation, we believe that further reductions in levels of armaments will be able to be made without in any way endangering security. Since the review will set out the framework for defence policy for years to come, we will halt any defence cut, and any order for a new weapons system, which might prejudice its outcome.
    Establish an Arms Conversion Agency to help arms manufacturers to diversify and convert out of the defence field, funded by savings made in the defence budget. Out proposed regional developments agencies will also provide help to areas particularly affected. We will reduce spending on military research and development, and shift the resources into the civilian sector.
    Maintain a minimum nuclear deterrent. We believe that the UK needs to retain its independent nuclear deterrent, but that the escalation of firepower represented by the scale of the Trident replacement for Polaris is unnecessary and unhelpful. We will ensure that the total number of warheads on the four-boat Trident system is limited to no more than that currently deployed on the Polaris system, and our Defence Review will also examine the possibilities of future European cooperatino in the provision of a deterrent force. We reject the Government's proposed replacement of British free-fall nuclear bombs with air-to-surface missiles.
    Proposed new disarmament initiatives covering all categories of conventional and nuclear weapons. These will aim to eliminate non-strategic nuclear weapons from Europe, and to reduce the strategic weapons possessed by the US, the former Soviet Union, Britain, France and China - a vital step towards the day when individual nations' possession of nuclear deterrents ceases to be necessary.
    Act against the arms trade. Together with our Community partners, we will establish a register of all international arms sales, eventually to become a UN register. We will place a total embargo on arms sales to regimes which violate human rights, and work for further global agreements among suppliers to control arms sales and technology transfer. We will close the Defence Export Services Organisation and ensure that overseas said is not linked in any way to arms purchases.
    Make the United Nationsl more effective. The UN Security Council should take a proactive role in peace-keeping before confrontation develops into conflict. We will work with our Community partners to ensure that funds are available for maintaining peace and security. The UN Military Staff Committee should be reinstated and a permanent peacekeeping force established, with member states contributing contingents on an annual basis. Because of the need to assign British forces to this and to European policing and disaster roles (on top of their present commitments), more general purpose infantry battalions will be required than the number currently planned by the Conservative Government.

