Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_050037.txt

Press Release from Party: Greens

Green Party beats all other parties on global justice, says World Development Movement

28 April 2010

The World Development Movement has analysed and scored the main parties' policies on international development - and has rated the Green Party higher than any other party (1). 

The Greens, who score an impressive 8 out of 10, come out on top on issues such as trade justice, international aid and IMF reform, ahead of the Liberal Democrats (6 out of 10), Labour (5 out of 10) and the poorly scoring Conservatives, who lag behind on a score of just 3 out of 10.

To tackle world poverty, the Green Party has said the UK should:

 Introduce a "Robin Hood" tax (2) which would generate as much as 250bn by taxing bankers transactions by a tiny amount (maybe 0.05%). This money would be used to tackle global poverty, as well as tackling climate change and investing in public services.
 Increase aid by exceeding the UN's target and allocating at least 1 per cent of UK Gross National Produce for aid by 2011, adding an extra 4.5bn pa. This aid should be targeted for the poorest, not involve economic policy conditions, respect gender equality and not be diverted to equipping security forces.
 Keep an International Aid Department separate from the Foreign Office, so as to separate foreign policy interests from humanitarian assistance.


Green Party leader Caroline Lucas, herself a former policy advisor for a leading development NGO, commented today:

"I am delighted to see that Green Party policies are considered better than those of the other parties.

"We think our policies would radically improve the lives of the poorest.

"When it comes to international aid, we would exceed the UN target.

"The "Robin Hood" tax, which officially became Green Party policy at our spring conference in February, would provide billions of pounds to tackle global poverty, whilst taking a minute percentage of large financial transactions.

"We are on the brink of getting our first MPs into Westminster, which would mean an independent voice in parliament talking about these vital issues, and holding the Government to account."

Julian Oram, the World Development Movement's head of policy commented:

"Anti-poverty campaigners have been shocked by the Conservative party's admission that part of the aid budget under a Tory government could be used for British military operations in developing countries.

"And Labour's promise to help countries cope with climate change would also come out of the aid budget, diverting finance away from health and education, rather than being additional to that much needed aid.

"The take-home message to the three main party leaders is: must do better if you genuinely want to tackle the root causes of global poverty."


Notes:

1. For more information please see: http://www.wdm.org.uk/news/tories-and-labour-criticised-over-development-policies-ahead-world-poverty-day.

2. to read more about the Robin Hood tax please see: http://robinhoodtax.org.uk/. 

