Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228020002.txt

Party Manifesto: Labour (UK) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

A proud history.

The British people achieved magnificent things in the 20th century. But for too long, our strengths have been undermined by weaknesses of elitism and snobbery, vested interests and social division, complacency bred by harking back to the past. We achieved spurts of economic growth, but inflation would then get out of control. Our welfare state was founded to offer security, but its progress was stalled. We reached out to Europe, then drew back to become semi-detached.
It is as if a glass ceiling has stopped us fulfilling our potential. In the 21st century, we have the opportunity to break through that glass ceiling, because our historic strengths match the demands of the modern world.
We can use our openness and entrepreneurial flair to become a global centre in the knowledge economy. We can use our sense of fair play and mutual responsibility to be a strong, dynamic, multiracial society held together by strong values. We can use our historic and geographical position to link Europe and America, and help the developing world.
The key to tapping our strengths, to breaking through this glass ceiling, is contained in a simple but hard-to-achieve idea, set out at the heart of our party?s constitution: the determination to put power, wealth and opportunity in the hands of the many, not the few.
I know as well as anyone that we have just begun; millions of hard-working families want, need and deserve more. That means more change in a second term, not less ? to extend opportunity for all. We reject the quiet life. We must secure a mandate for change.
Ten goals for 2010:
? Long-term economic stability.
? Rising living standards for all.
?Expanded higher education as we raise standards in secondary schools.
? A healthier nation with fast treatment, free at the point of use.
?Full employment in every region.
? Opportunity for all children, security for all pensioners.
? A modern criminal justice system.
? Strong and accountable local government.
? British ideas leading a reformed and enlarged Europe.
? Global poverty and climate change tackled.


Fulfilling Britain?s great potential.
Shifting the odds for hard-working families.

In 1997 we promised a start, not a revolution. We made five specific five-year pledges. Three have been completed early; all will be completed within five years, as we promised. Each pledge is matched by further achievement: the lowest inflation and unemployment for a generation; one million new jobs; over 17,000 extra nurses, the best primary school test results ever and, as the British Crime Survey shows, crime is down by ten per cent. We also offered a ten-point contract to the British people. The results are at the back of this manifesto. Not everything has gone right ? it never does. But we are getting there, easing burdens and extending opportunities, by choice not chance. Economic instability wrecks the lives of hard-working families. So we chose to put the public finances right. It meant tough decisions that were opposed by the Conservatives. But today the economy is stable and growing, and interest rates are nearly half the level they averaged under the Conservatives. Unemployment steals dignity. So we chose to introduce a windfall tax on the excess profits of the privatised utilities and to use the money to help unemployed people back to work. That was opposed by the Conservatives, who are now pledged to abolish the New Deal. But today, youth unemployment is at its lowest level since 1975 and longterm unemployment at its lowest level since 1978. Poor education is a cruel injustice. So we chose to introduce a new system for teaching the basics in primary schools. We met opposition, and the Conservatives want to roll back our programmes. But today, primary schools are achieving their best results ever. A run-down health service causes insecurity. So we chose to reform the NHS, and inject new money. Waiting lists and times are now down and falling, and the number of nurses and doctors is now rising. Poverty denies basic rights. So we chose to reform the welfare state to channel extra money to the poorest pensioners and poorest children. Today, single pensioners can look forward to a minimum income of F100 a week and pensioner couples F154, and over one million children have been taken out of poverty. The centralisation of power only helps the powerful. So we chose to break the suffocating centralisation of British government. The UK has been strengthened. Today, it is the Conservatives who threaten the stability of the UK with their proposals for two classes of MP. Our Scottish and Welsh manifestos, alongside this one, set out our vision for continued partnership. Isolation from Europe does not help anyone. So we chose to engage constructively in Europe, not to shout abuse from the sidelines. Today, Europe is moving in a direction that is good for Britain and good for Europe. In policy for aid, development and international debt relief, we have led the way. Of course, there are still big problems, but we are better off, better educated, better governed, better respected abroad. There has been another change too ? a change of priorities and values. We learnt in the 1980s that looking after number one was not enough; that without opportunity, responsibility was weak; that an unfair society was a less prosperous one. The philosophy was wrong ? it hurt millions of families and left our country with lasting problems. We have shown we are a reformed party, competent to govern. Now we offer more. More change, and more rewards for Britain?s hard-working families: more prosperity, more opportunities, more security.


