Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030153.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

Opening up public access to legal services
Thu, 29/04/2010 - 11:37

The Scottish Government's Legal Services
(Scotland) Bill was overwhelmingly supported by MSPs at its first stage
in the Scottish Parliament this afternoon. The Bill will enable the
establishment of new business models for legal services thus opening up
public access to high quality legal services.

Welcoming the Parliament's decision, SNP MSP
Nigel Don, a member of Holyrood's Justice Committee, said:

"The SNP Scottish Government has put the
principle of user-centred services at the heart of its policy approach.
Legal services should be no different and this bill will make the legal
services market more open and accessible and provide more choice for the
public.

"People nowadays quite rightly want to be able to access legal
services in the same way that they do other services, quickly and easily
and in a way that suits their particular needs, and the bill will
enable legal service providers in Scotland to respond to that desire. 

"The robust new regulatory framework that the
bill puts in place will also allow users to have confidence in the
quality of the service they are paying for. It's no wonder that the
Legal Services Bill is strongly supported by consumer organisations, a
fact which I welcome.

"It's a good piece of legislation for the legal
profession as well. By removing outdated restrictions on business
models, it will allow firms to respond to market changes and grow and
compete both in the UK and internationally. The changes are not
compulsory: firms will be able to stick with the traditional legal
business model if that suits them, but they will no longer be
constrained by it.

"The Legal Services Bill has passed its first
parliamentary stage today and with the overwhelming support that MSPs
have given to the principles behind it, I am hopeful that Scottish
consumers will soon be able to benefit from these important changes."

Notes:

Background information about the Legal Services
Bill can be found at here.
Filed under:

    Law
    Holyrood


