Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_060067.txt

Press Release from Party: Con

News story
Questions for the Government on dealing with the ash cloud
Tuesday, April 20 2010
An aeroplane

As the travel crisis caused by the Icelandic volcanic eruption enters its fifth day, Shadow Transport Secretary Theresa Villiers has sought assurances from the Government that everything is being done to get stranded British citizens home

"This is a national crisis that demands strong unified action", she said.

"That is why we offered Labour our support and our ideas, such as using the Royal Navy to help bring stranded Britons home from the continent".

The Conservatives have listed a number of key questions for the Government to answer on dealing with the ash cloud.

"Stranded Britons abroad need a clear assurance from the Government that there is a strategy in place to help them and bring them home", Villiers added. "But a number of issues are not clear and we have not had a detailed public statement from ministers since Sunday".

"The substantial backlog of flights is going to mean massive disruption for weeks to come but there have been no detailed public statements of how this will be handled. All political parties need to focus on exactly how we are going to get stranded Britons home as soon as possible, so clarity from Gordon Brown and his ministers is essential."

Questions for the Government to answer:

    When did the Government first realise the scale of the problem? What is their current assessment of the scale of the problem?
    Why has the govt not issued an update on the extent of their plan and its progress since Sunday?
    How many British citizens are stranded overseas? Where are they stranded? How many days does the govt estimate it will take them to return home?
    What instructions have been given to British embassies and High Commissions about the aid they can offer to stranded British citizens?W
    What instructions have been given to British citizens on the continent? What measures will be taken to assist them at ports like Calais?
    What arrangements have been made at Madrid to assist passengers who manage to arrive there from Asia or America?
    If airspace does reopen across the UK at some point today, what is the Government assessment of how many people can be returned home on reduced flight timetables?
    What role do the Government envisage playing in getting people home, including providing information and advice, if air space reopens?
    What talks have taken place with the insurance industry to ensure that British citizens are not unfairly penalised by their insurance companies?
    What specific objectives have the three Royal Navy ships been given?
    What funding has been allocated to help stranded British citizens and from which budget will it come?
    What measures are being taken to assist people on medication who are stranded abroad?
    What is the current assessment of the airbridge to Afghanistan?
    What measures are being taken to ensure that military voters are not disenfranchised and that their votes can be returned to the UK in time for the election?
    How many military personnel have had to have their tours in Afghanistan extended? How many have had their R&R delayed or cancelled? What alternative arrangements are in place?

Go to news

    Subscribe
    Print



