Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_010039.txt

Press Release from Party: LibDem

lection an opportunity to win back privacy says Clegg

Thu, 18 Mar 2010

Liberal Democrat Leader Nick Clegg will today say this election is an opportunity for the British people to vote to take their privacy back.

In his speech to Privacy International to mark their 20th Anniversary, Nick Clegg will say:

Labour has spent 13 years trampling over peoples privacy. From allowing childrens fingerprints to be taken at school without their parents consent; to making us a world leader in CCTV; to wasting vast sums of taxpayers money on giant databases that hoard our personal details. And now we hear that ministers want pensioners to swap their bus passes for ID cards.

The Governments staggering record on losing private data  leaving it in pub car parks and on commuter trains  just makes matters worse.

And theres an even bigger issue at stake: Labours flagrant disregard for our privacy flies in the face of hard won British liberty. It betrays a deep distrust of the British people, as well as an obsession with controlling every aspect of everyday life from Whitehall.

Those same reflexes underpin this Governments obsession with law-making. Since 1997 they have flooded the statute books with nearly 4,300 new ways of making us criminals. Some of them are completely bizarre, like disturbing a pack of eggs when directed not to by an authorised officer, and causing a nuclear explosion, as if we needed a new law for that.

And where do all these new laws get us? Only one in a hundred crimes ends in a conviction in court.

The Conservatives talk a good game on privacy, but scratch beneath the surface and its clear they cant be trusted to roll back Labours surveillance state. Just look at their plans to make it even easier for the police to watch and record people getting on with their daily lives, all in the name of cutting red tape.

Only the Liberal Democrats will bring an end to the endless snooping on innocent people.

