Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228060049.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

THE NHS - PRESENT AND FUTURE

The Conservative Party is totally committed to the National Health Service. The Government has set out in the Patient's Charter the principles on which the NHS is based. The most fundamental of these is that need, and not ability to pay, is and will remain the basis on which care is offered to all by the NHS. Since 1979, there have been great improvements in the health of the nation.

    Life expectancy has increased by two years.
    Deaths amongst babies and very young children have gone down by 40 per cent.
    hospitals are treating well over a million more people a year as in-patients.
    hospitals are treating over two million more people a year as out-patients.
    kidney transplants have more than doubled.
    hip replacements have increased by over 50 per cent.
    coronary artery by-passes have nearly tripled. 

Since 1979 the Government has vastly increased the resources available to the NHS.

    We have increased overall funding for the NHS by 55 per cent after allowing for inflation. The cash increases in each of the three years up to 1992-93 have been the biggest ever.
    The number of doctors and dentists has been increased by 17,000, and the real resources committed to GP services have doubled since 1979.
    The number of nurses and midwives has gone up by 69,000.
    We have established the independent Pay Review Body which nurses had sought for so long, and increased their pay by 43 per cent. It is hard now to remember that Labour actually cut nurses' pay.
    We have restored the hospital building programme so savagely cut by Labour at the end of their last term of office. 

But the Conservative Government has not simply spent more money on the NHS.

    We have reformed the organisation of the NHS to encourage those working in the service to respond to what patients want and need, and to get the most out of the increased money which the taxpayer provides. 

At local level, health authorities now have the task of buying health care with their local share of the National Health budget. Hospitals can now be run by their own local team of doctors, nurses and managers. By April there will be 156 NHS Trusts whose local boards will have extra freedoms to develop local NHS services. Another 156 hospitals have applied to become trusts from April 1993.

We have acted to reduce the long hours worked by junior doctors in hospitals. For the first time limits are being set on the number of hours which may be worked continuously.

Good nursing is the essential complement to good medicine. We have introduced Project 2000 - a new approach to the professional training of nurses.

The GP has a crucial role to play in the development of health services. Under the Government's fund- holding initiative, doctors have control over their own spending on behalf of patients for the first time. Over 3,000 GPs will be fundholders by April, caring for 14 per cent of NHS patients. A further 2,500 are preparing to become fundholders in April 1993. As a result, new services are being offered at local surgeries and health centres. Many general practitioners have said that they would like to become involved in fund-holding. We have already extended the scope of the fund-holding scheme to allow general practitioners to provide services such as community nursing.

    We will, year by year, increase the level of real resources committed to the NHS. Savings made through greater efficiency will be ploughed back into the Service.
    We will develop a comprehensive research and development strategy for the NHS.
    We will continue to develop the NHS Trust movement which places responsibility for managing hospitals and other services with local teams who are closest to patients.
    We will continue to encourage the involvement of doctors and other medical staff in the management of services.
    We will introduce powers for nurses to prescribe where appropriate.
    We will complete the implementation of Project 2000 training for nurses.
    We will set goals for the employment of women in professional and managerial posts in the NHS.
    We will ensure that, following maternity leave or a career break, all women working in the NHS, including those returning to nursing on a part-time or job-sharing basis, are able to return to work of a similar status or level to that which they left.
    We will ensure that the benefits of fund- holding arrangements are available to any GP who wishes to apply, and we will be ready to extend the scope of the scheme further as it develops. 

