Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040086.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Labour MP Confirmed that All Parties Bend Immigration Rules for Money
April 1, 2010

EURIMChannel 4s recent programme on the cash for influence scandal was edited to remove a taped interview with a Labour MP who admitted that she and MPs from other parties took cash to bend immigration rules so Third Worlders could enter Britain.

The shocking revelations  which were deliberately cut out of the final broadcast  have now leaked out.

In the excised material, Luton Labour MP Margaret Moran boasted that she used the lobbying ability of a private company comprised of Tory, Labour and Lib Dem MPs to change immigration policy so cheap workers could be brought in from India.

The company, called EURIM, is an entirely private enterprise which charges major companies hundreds of thousands of pounds each to join. Once listed as a member, these multinationals can then ask MPs to intercede on legislation pertinent to their industry sector.

In the secretly recorded interviews with an undercover journalist, Ms Moran said EURIM had been able to circumvent the points-based immigration system for IT workers from India.

According to Ms Moran, EURIMs clients are paying members who want to influence the agenda. We produce some reports, but mostly its lobbying Ministers, Ms Moran said.

The EURIM website states prominently that EURIM does not undertake lobbying activities, nor does it make a case on behalf of individual companies.

Ms Morans on-camera admissions prove this to be an outright lie.

The last one I think was on the immigration rulesbecause a lot of IT companies had used short-term workers from India, Ms Moran told the undercover reporter.

The immigration points system was going to throw that. I actually went and saw Tata who are the big Indian IT companyso we got that points system changed. So they still are able to bring workers in for big projects, Ms Moran said on tape.

The Association of Professional Staffing Companies (APSCo) is on record as saying that the importation of IT workers from India was the direct cause of tens of thousands of British IT workers being made jobless.

According to APSCo, most of those coming to the UK on the visas are IT workers, with more than 70 percent from India. They also reported that experienced British IT staff claim they are now finding it virtually impossible to find work because of the flood of overseas contractors, who also work for cheaper rates.

Ms Moran also claimed that she used her influence to delay the introduction of a terrorist-detector passport system to help Thomson Travel (TUI)  and that company then paid for her air tickets and travel for a holiday in Spain.

Im on the Home Affairs Select Committee  I went off and sort of slightly, gently, well I didnt have to harass Keith Vaz, I was just, he owes me oneso he did a fairly quick report, but we interrogated all the people that needed to be interrogated and it proved what Thomson TUI were sayingso theyre changing the system now so they are giving more lead-in time and theyre changing some of the technologies, she said.

EURIM currently lists nine politicians as directors, including deputy chairman, Tory MP Ian Taylor, and four peers and an MEP.

The admission by serving MPs that they have deliberately engaged in bending immigration law so that British people lose their jobs to outsiders, is nothing short of criminal  and far more newsworthy than the original edited documentary actually shown on Channel 4.

The fact that Channel 4 saw fit to excise these parts from the documentary which was finally broadcast, speaks volumes in itself.

Posted in National News | Comments (191)

