Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040003.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP

British People Put Last: Asylum Seekers Given Housing Priority over Brits
March 12, 2010

british-people-put-last-torn-flagAt least 24,000 asylum seeker families have been given social housing at a cost of 750 million over the last four years  while the queue of British people waiting for houses grows ever longer.

According to new figures released by the Home Office, the 750 million has been dished out to councils to pay for housing for the asylum seekers from all corners of the globe.

51.1 million has been paid to Glasgow City Council, 14.3 million to Liverpool City Council, 19 million to Nottingham City Council amd 14.5 million to Cardiff City Council.

Millions more have been handed out to housing associations and private property firms.

According to separate Home Office figures, some 1.8 million people (officially described as largely British born, which is establishment speak for Third World immigrant) are waiting for social housing at present.

Incredibly, immigration minister Phil Woolas defended the expenditure, bizarrely claiming that It is an absolute priority that accommodation for asylum seekers provides taxpayers value for money.

The Conservative Party has endorsed all of the legislation which created the asylum swindle and offers no alternative to this disastrous situation.

The British National Partys position on asylum is simple.

A BNP government would endorse international conventions pertaining to asylum which state that a person fleeing political persecution has the right of refuge in the first safe country bordering the one they are fleeing.

An asylum seeker does not have the right to cross 20 or more safe countries to reach Britain.

The moment these people leave the first safe country bordering the one they are fleeing, they are no longer asylum seekers but simply immigration law breakers.

There are, therefore, the BNP says, no legal asylum seekers in Britain.

The time has come to put the British people first  and only the BNP has the policies to make this a reality.

Posted in National News | 73 Comments 

