Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040194.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Budget Cuts: Immigration Control Staff in Dover to be Sacked
May 1st, 2010 by BNP News

All senior immigration control staff at Dover are to be made redundant because of budget cuts of 1.5 million  while the foreign aid budget is to be increased to 13.1 billion.

According to reports, all 24 UK Border Agency (UKBA) staff in Dover with the title immigration officer (the nations front line in immigration control) will lose their jobs.

These particular staff members are allegedly responsible for 40 percent of all the illegal immigrant removals from Kent last year.

The budget cuts will also cause the closure of the Dover detention centre which means that illegal immigrants in the region will now no longer even be held under state custody prior to being deported.

According to a leaked memo, regional UKBA deputy director Graham Ralph wrote: The budget for Kent  including Dover, will be reduced by 1.5 million annually.

This is a difficult and uncertain time for everyone. I urge staff to work together to get through this restructure.

Meanwhile, the Government has announced plans for the foreign aid budget to be increased to 0.7 percent of the Gross Domestic Product. This will translate to a figure in excess of 13 billion.

According to the memo, two chief immigration officers will also be sacked and assistant officers will decrease from 23 to 21. Further cuts in nearby Folkestone take the job losses to 30.

Both Labour and Conservatives have promised across-the-board cuts in all public sectors, but both have ring fenced foreign aid as untouchable.

Other cuts will see at least 100,000 job losses in the National Health  Service, and an estimated 500,000 job losses elsewhere in the public sector.

The catastrophic after effects of these job losses will reverberate throughout the economy as a large number of private sector companies depend on public service contracts for their existence.

The increase in the foreign aid budget becomes even more scandalous in this light.

It seems there is money for foreign aid to China, but not to protect Britains borders.

The British National Party is the only political party to demand an end to foreign aid and the large number of other unnecessary handouts (climate change, EU membership, foreign wars, immigration, asylum and all politically correct leftist projects).

The savings generated by cutting these projects will allow a BNP government to keep front line expenditure at the proper levels, without tax raises or other punitive measures.

Tags: Aid Budget, Budget Cuts, Catastrophic, Control Staff, Deputy Director, Director Graham, Foreign Aid, Gross Domestic Product, illegal immigrants, Immigration Control, Immigration Officer, Immigration Officers, job losses, National Health Service, Private Sector Companies, Public Sectors, Removals, Restructure, Service Contracts, State Custody
Posted in National News | Comments (121)

