Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228060013.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Staying healthy

Common sense means ending political interference in medical judgments and giving choice to patients

    Increase funding for NHS
    Trust doctors and nurses, not politicians, to make medical decisions
    Give patients and GPs the right to choose in which hospital to be treated
    Remove tax penalty on private medical insurance
    Guaranteed limits on waiting times for patients

The National Health Service is in a state of almost permanent crisis.

Too many of us experience a second-class system. People are waiting too long to be treated; they are suffering shabby and unhygenic conditions in hospitals; they have no choice in how, when or where they are looked after. As people become used to choice and quality in other areas of their life, the service they get from the NHS is increasingly unacceptable.

It's not just about money.

Ask anyone who works in the health service and they will tell you that the NHS is now creaking under the strain of bureaucracy and Government gimmicks. All the Government has done in four years is to substitute its own political priorities and the pursuit of headlines for the clinical judgment of doctors and nurses. Labour said they would cut waiting lists - so hospitals have been forced to bring in waiting lists to get on the waiting list, and to give priority to non-urgent operations over those in genuine medical need.

It's time for common sense. The next Conservative Government will match the Government's plans for spending on the NHS but ensure the money goes further.

We will take politicians out of the day-to-day management of the NHS, putting in their place respect for clinical decisions and accountability to patients.

We will also build a new partnership between the state and independent sectors.

"The Conservative party is committed to a comprehensive NHS free to all its users. "

