Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_020004.txt

Press Release from Party: Lab

16.03.2010



Join with Labour to Save Our Sure Start

Ed BallsLabour is today joining forces with families across England in a campaign to Save Our Sure Start children's centres from David Cameron's plans to cut their funding and prevent access to these valuable services for families on middle and modest incomes.  

Children's Secretary Ed Balls launched the campaign today as he welcomed the opening of the 3,500th Sure Start children's centre for parents and children across England.

Families are invited to show how much they love their Sure Start centre at a new website www.saveoursurestart.com.

The Tories would cut Sure Start from families on middle and modest incomes. Instead of the universal service Labour has created for all families, the Tories have said they would cut 200 million each year from the Sure Start budget - which could see one in five children's centres being forced to close.

Labour's campaign is backed by ordinary families, children's champions and celebrity mums, including Arabella Weir, Jo Brand and actress Michelle Collins. Michelle Collins, celebrity Labour supporter and former EastEnders star said:

"There's nothing more important than giving all children the best possible start in life. That's why Sure Start Children's Centres were set up, they have made life easier for millions of families and it would be a major step backwards to cut them now. That's why I'm encouraging everyone to sign up to www.saveoursurestart.com."

Ed Balls MP, Labour's Children's Secretary said:

"I'm proud to be supporting families across England who are today campaigning to save their Sure Start children's centre. These centres are now at the very heart of their local communities, providing essential services to parents and helping to give children the best possible start in life.

"In 1997, there were no Children's Centres, but today there are 3,500. Labour created Sure Start and will continue investing in it as a universal service for all families with children under five.

"But by cutting Sure Start and rolling back Labour's Child Trust Fund and Tax Credits, David Cameron's Conservatives are demonstrating they haven't changed.

"When families take a long, hard look at the Tories they can see that they have the wrong policies for children and the wrong priorities for our country.  But with Labour's future fair for all, every child is guaranteed a Sure Start in life."

