Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228010040.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Business

Business people want to get on with running their companies, creating wealth and providing more opportunities for their staff. They should not have to spend large amounts of their time acting as agents for the Government, coping with interminable regulations and filling in endless forms. We will:

    Scrap unnecessary business regulations. We have published a list of 25 specific major regulations which we will scrap. We believe any new regulations should be subject to a "sunset clause", setting a deadline after which they would automatically lapse. We will also consult business before introducing any new measures.

    Cut business rates on small businesses by introducing a Business Rates Allowance, similar to personal tax allowances. This tax-free allowance would be set at £1500 and apply to all small businesses. With larger businesses paying a little more to cover the cost of the scheme, smaller businesses will pay less.

    Promote diversity of ownership. We will initiate a review of policy governing mutual ownership of building societies, insurance companies and credit unions to encourage and develop them. We will also review legislation in order to stimulate employee share ownership and cooperatives.

    Invest in a knowledge-based economy through research. Scientific research is the cornerstone to a successful knowledge-based economy. We welcome the extra resources the sector has already seen as a result of partnership with charities and will further this by increasing government investment in scientific research, paid for by stopping taxpayers’ money being used to help finance arms exports. We would give priority to research on climate change mitigation and cleaner production and consumption techniques, and set up an Academy of British Invention. This will be funded by stopping the Export Credit Guarantee Department using taxpayers' money to support arms exports.

    Encourage ethical business practice. We want the UK to play a leading role in seeing the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention implemented world-wide. We will encourage ethical shareholding by reforming corporate governance to enhance stakeholders' rights. We will require the largest companies to report on their social and environmental performance.

    Encourage innovation by measures including promoting links between academic and industrial research and strengthening the roles of local and regional authorities to stimulate development and implementation.

