Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228010018.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

Making Transport Clean and Efficient

By expanding the provision and quality of public transport and reducing society's dependence on the private car, we will improve travel efficiency and protect the environment. We will achieve this by:

    Investment in public transport, increasing its frequency of services, speed and safety, and reducing its cost to the individual - especially in isolated rural areas where the need is greatest. We will encourage new schemes, using light railways and trams in cities. We will require local authorities to define minimum standards of accessibility in their areas and draw up transport plans which meet them.
    Immediate improvements in the rail network, allowing more movement of goods and passengers by rail and less environmental damage. We will construct a high-speed link from the Channel Tunnel to connect with the major rail routes to the North and West, and extend electrification throughout the country. We oppose the privatisation of British Rail, but will allow private operators access to the rail network, while giving BR the freedom to raise investment capital on the open market.
    A reduction in fuel consumption. All political parties accept that long-term increases in petrol prices are not only environmentally necessary but aunavoidable. We will phase these in gradually by applying our Energy Tax to petrol, while at the same time graduating Vehicle Excise Duty and Car Tax according to fuel efficiency - so that the most efficient vehicles pay least. These price increases will not be brought in unless and untli compensation schemes for individuals and rural communities which have no alternative to the use of cars are ready to be introduced. We will scrap the remaining tax breaks for company cars and apply tougher limits to permitted emissions.
    Assisting people in rural areas by making concessionary fares on local public transport widely available. We will encourage the use of village minibuses, 'post and passenger' buses and taxi services. People who have no alternatives to private cars will be helped by our plans to graduate Vehicle Excise Duty and by specific target measures to help isolated communities.
    Action against traffic congestion in urban areas. We will encourage local authorities to introduce peak-hour bans on cars, traffic calming measures, car-sharing schemes and further pedestrianisation. We will introduce a variety of road-pricing schemes, in which motorists pay a premium to use highly congested roads at busy times of the day.
    New priorities for road building. We will approve major motorway or trunk road investments only where it can be demonstrated that alternative transport provision cannot meet the needs at lower economic and environmental cost. Essentially new roads and improvements will still proceed, but the creation of a 'level playing field' in decision-making between rail and road will ensure some switch of passenger and freight transport to the railways.
    The expansion of airports outside the South East, while at the same time freezing further development at Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted.
    Reversing the decline in the Merchant Fleet. For economic and defence reasons, we will boost British shipping and promote recruitment and training for the Merchant Navy.
    Environmental planning policies. We will introduce planning policies which will encourage the building of homes near workplaces, leisure facilities, shops and other services. Where this is not possible, public transport routes must be easily accessible. We will encourage the use of information technology to decentralise work.

