Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030094.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

Plaid and SNP offer debates alternative
Sat, 17/04/2010 - 11:24

The SNP and Plaid Cymru have described the first Leaders' Debate as 'three machine politicians with nothing to say to three countries'.

Plaid Cymru and the SNP have been united in their opposition to the decision by the broadcasters to cut Scotland and Wales out of the debate.

Commenting, SNP Westminster Leader Angus Robertson said:

"The London leaders are part of the same metropolitan machine - a system that has failed voters in our nations. Last night's debate only served to highlight how remote they are from the issues that matter most.

"They had nothing positive to say about schools and hospitals in Scotland or Wales, but these vital local services will face the impact of the harsh cuts that were confirmed by all three London parties.

"They are prepared to cut investment on teachers, nurses and jobs but continue spending billions on nuclear weapons. That is the wrong choice and a deeply dangerous choice.

"Only a strong bloc of Plaid Cymru and SNP MPs can break through this cosy London consensus. Our message at this election is simple: more nats means less cuts. Electing an SNP or Plaid Cymru MP as a local champion is the only way to win a better deal for the people of Scotland and Wales and protect jobs and local services."

Plaid Cymru Westminster Leader Elfyn Llwyd added:

In what was a very sterile debate, not once did we hear the word Wales or Scotland  mentioned by any of the leaders.

"Last night all we got was three men with nothing to say to three countries.

Plaid and the SNP offer a different choice.  We have different priorities - protecting our schools and hospitals and making sure our economies come out of recession.

Yet another Labour, Tory or Lib-Dem to toe their London party line will not stand up for our communities  Plaid and the SNP will.

The people of Wales and Scotland were ignored last night - but that they won't be ignored by come election day.

