Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040160.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Why the Human Rights Act Would Be Abolished by the BNP
April 21, 2010

A Muslim sex-grooming offender who abused two girls has won the right to stay in Britain by claiming that his human rights would be breached if he were to be deported back to his native Pakistan.

The outrageous abuse of British hospitality has been made possible by the Human Rights Act (HRA), introduced by the Labour Party to be in line with EU legislation.

A British National Party government would repeal this law which is a travesty of justice and has been used by criminals from all over the world to avoid deportation from Britain.

In the latest incident, Zulfar Hussain, who lived in Blackburn, was jailed for five years in 2007 for crimes against two girls, both under the age of 16.

Mr Hussain is but one of a long line of Muslim sex-grooming abusers whose activities in Britain are so widespread that they have been the subject of television shows and parliamentary debates  but only after the BNP first raised the issue.

According to reports, Mr Hussain is soon to be freed and was to have been deported as a foreign national who has committed a serious crime.

However, a spokeswoman for the Home Office confirmed that he had been granted leave to remain by an immigration judge earlier this month.

Hussain was jailed in August 2007 at Preston Crown Court, which heard how he abducted and sexually exploited two vulnerable girls while plying them with drugs.

Fellow Muslim offender Qaiser Naveed, 34, also from Burnley, was jailed alongside Hussain for the same offences, and has not yet appealed against his deportation order but it is possible that he too will exploit the legal loophole left open by the HRA.

Mr Hussain used the HRA to claim that because his wife and two children are British, deporting him would deny him his right to a family life. He arrived in Britain in September 1994 under a temporary visa but was granted permanent leave to remain because of his marriage to a British national.

The BNPs policy on foreign national criminals is instant deportation, no matter what their immigration status may be.

In addition, the BNP would, having withdrawn from EU membership, abolish the HRA and all related laws which have distorted the judicial system to act in favour of the criminal class rather than the victims.

Posted in IMMIGRATION, LAW & ORDER, National News | Comments (97)

