Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040113.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Spending on Afghanistan War to Leap to 5 Billion per Year
April 7, 2010

british-war-deadDespite massive budget cuts to services for British people at home, the criminal gang of Labour and Tory warmongers, who have plunged Britain into the immoral Afghanistan war, have approved an increase in spending on that war to 5 billion per year.

The increased expenditure is the logical conclusion of promises by the Labour and Tory parties that they would intensify British involvement in that conflict, never mind the cost or legality.

According to new figures, spending on the Afghanistan war is to leap from its current 3.5 billion per year to 5 billion. The additional cash will be used to fund more helicopters and unmanned drone aircraft.

The BNP endorses the idea that British troops be afforded the very best equipment available and has pointed out that they should have had this before they were committed to combat, not afterwards.

The admission that British forces in Afghanistan need better equipment and helicopters is therefore a double dose of treason from the corrupt Labour/Tory Party: they committed our troops to an illegal war, underfunded and ill-equipped.

The blood of the 280 soldiers British soldiers therefore drips from the hands of the Tory/Labour MPs who voted for this war.

Ministry of Defence figures show that more than 300 soldiers have suffered life-changing injuries in the conflict, adding even further to misery and suffering inflicted upon the families of our soldiers.

During 200608, 34 UK personnel attended field hospital for psychiatric reasons, and 414 were assessed as having a psychological disorder on their return to Britain.

The casualties contribute to an MoD benefits bill which shows spending of more than 1 billion a year on war pensions to veterans or their families. The bereaved partner of a member of the armed forces killed in action is entitled to a pension averaging 100 a week.

MoD chiefs are also paying out to cover deaths and injury to civilians in Afghanistan. Independent estimates put the toll of Afghan civilians killed in the conflict as high as 30,000, and activists warn that the collateral damage of coalition activity is sapping local support.

The Department for International Development (DfID) has also increased its spending in Afghanistan to just under a billion pounds (969 million to be precise) and at least 100 million on an operation entitled Strategic Programme Funds: counter-narcotics which was supposed to reduce the amount of opium produced in that country.

This policy has also been a spectacular failure, as figures from the police show that in the six years after the Taliban were ousted, production of the opium which produced 90 percent of the heroin on Britains streets rose by 150 percent.

The British National Party is the only political party to vehemently oppose the war in Afghanistan and demand the immediate withdrawal of British troops from that conflict.

Furthermore, the BNP will actively seek the prosecution of all those politicians and civil servants who concocted the lies saying that the Afghan war (and the Iraq conflict) was justified.

These people  Tony Blair, Gordon Brown, Iain-Duncan Smith and others  must all be called to account under war crimes and crimes against humanity charges.

Posted in National News | Comments (39)

