Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060027.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------


change politics | make politics more accountable

Make politics more accountableWe will clean up politics: the expenses, the lobbying and problems with party funding. We will cutthe cost of Parliament, cut the number of MPs and cut Ministers’ pay. We will give citizens directcontrol over what goes on in Westminster, make government more accountable and safeguard theindependence of the civil service.

It is vital that we act quickly and decisivelyto restore the reputation of politics. Too muchunacceptable behaviour has gone uncheckedfor too long, from excessive expenses tosleazy lobbying practices. The people ofBritain have looked on in horror as revelationshave stripped away the dignity of Parliament,leaving millions of voters detached from thepolitical process, devoid of trust in the politicalclasses, and disillusioned with our systemof government.We will act rapidly to push through farreachingreforms to restore ethics to politicsand revive the electorate’s faith in politicians.It will take nothing less than a deep clean of thepolitical system in Westminster to root out thesleaze and dispel suspicion. We will start bycleaning up the expenses system to ensureMPs live by the same standards as the peoplewho give them their jobs, and by curbing theway in which former Ministers have securedlobbying jobs by exploiting their contacts.But that is just the start. We will also cutMinisters’ pay and reduce the number ofMPs in Parliament. Then we will go further,
far further, since the expenses scandal was justthe trigger for a deeper sense of frustration.We promise a total overhaul of our system ofgovernment, so that power is passed from thepoliticians at Westminster back to the people ofBritain. But this is the very least that is neededto fix our broken political system.Clean up WestminsterThe political crisis was triggered by the scandalof MPs’ expenses. We were the Party thatinsisted that MPs’ expenses were publishedonline, and we have supported the independentproposals to clean up the House of Commons.We proposed legislation so that anyonewanting to be a member of either the Houseof Commons or the House of Lords will needto be treated as a full UK taxpayer. But much,much more is needed to clean up our politicsand restore public trust.At the moment, there is no way that localconstituents can remove an MP foundguilty of serious wrongdoing until there is ageneral election. That is why a Conservativegovernment will introduce a power of ‘recall’
to allow electors to kick out MPs, a powerthat will be triggered by proven seriouswrongdoing. And we will introducea Parliamentary Privilege Act to make clearthat privilege cannot be abused by MPs toevade justice.The cost of politics has spiralled out ofcontrol. We will cut the perks and bureaucracyassociated with Parliament to save over£100 million a year. We will consult withthe Independent Parliamentary StandardsAuthority on how to move away from thegenerous final-salary pension system for MPs.The public are concerned about the influenceof money on politics, whether it is from tradeunions, individuals, or the lobbying industry.We will seek an agreement on a comprehensivepackage of reform that will encourageindividual donations and include an acrossthe-board cap on donations. This will mark theend of the big donor era and the problems it hassometimes entailed.A Conservative government will introducenew measures to ensure that the contacts andknowledge Ministers gain while being paid bythe public to serve the public are not unfairlyused for private gain. We will:ensure that ex-Ministers • are banned fromlobbying government for two years afterleaving office;• ensure that ex-Ministers have to seek adviceon the business posts they take up for tenyears after leaving office;• rewrite the Ministerial Code to make clearthat any former Minister who breaks therules on appointments will be forced togive up some or all of their Ministerialpension; and,• introduce new rules to stop centralgovernment bodies using public moneyto hire lobbyists to lobby othergovernment bodies.The lobbying industry must regulate itself toensure its practices are transparent – if it doesnot, then we will legislate to do so.Give citizens more powerPeople have been shut out of Westminsterpolitics for too long. Having a single vote everyfour or five years is not good enough – we needto give people real control over how they aregoverned. So, with a Conservative government,any petition that secures 100,000 signatureswill be eligible for formal debate in Parliament.The petition with the most signatures willenable members of the public to table a Billeligible to be voted on in Parliament. And wewill introduce a new Public Reading Stagefor Bills to give the public an opportunity tocomment on proposed legislation online.
