Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060010.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

Get Britain working again | CREATE A MORE BALANCED ECONOMY	

Get Britain working againWe will reduce youth unemployment and reduce the number of children in workless households aspart of our strategy for tackling poverty and inequality.

Under Labour, youth unemployment hasreached over 900,000, with one in fiveyoung people unable to find a job. We are atrisk of creating a lost generation of youngpeople without the skills to participate in theworkforce, without hope for the future. At thesame time, economic inactivity is rising, andmore than five million people are out of workand on benefits.This tidal wave of worklessness is making ithard for many families to make ends meet. Inrecent years, the number of people living insevere poverty has risen. One in six children inthe UK now lives in a workless household – thehighest proportion of any country in Europe –and child poverty has gone up in recent years.Getting people back into work is an essentialpart of realising the goal of eliminating childpoverty by 2020, and ensuring that everyonebenefits from economic growth.Reduce welfare dependency
We will scrap Labour’s failing employmentschemes and create a single Work Programmefor everyone who is unemployed, including the2.6 million people claiming Incapacity
Benefit who do not get enough help fromexisting programmes. We will reassess allcurrent claimants of Incapacity Benefit.Those found fit for work will be transferredonto Jobseeker’s Allowance. Recipients ofIncapacity Benefit who are genuinely disabledwill continue to receive the financial support towhich they are entitled. Our Work Programmewill:offer people targeted, • personalised helpsooner – straight away for those with seriousbarriers to work and at six months for thoseaged under 25;• be delivered through private and voluntarysector providers, which will be rewarded ona payment by results basis for getting peopleinto sustainable work;• draw on a range of Service Academiesto offer pre-employment training forunemployed people – our first ServiceAcademy, for hospitality and leisure, willprovide up to 50,000 training places andwork placements; and,
• involve the development of local WorkClubs – places where people lookingfor work can gather together to exchangeskills, find opportunities, make usefulcontacts and provide mutual support.Our plans will give unemployed people a handup, not a hand out. Unemployed people mustbe prepared to take up job offers. So, with theConservatives, long-term benefit claimantswho fail to find work will be required to ‘workfor the dole’ on community work programmes.Anyone on Jobseeker’s Allowance who refusesto join the Work Programme will lose the rightto claim out-of-work benefits until they do,while people who refuse to accept reasonablejob offers could forfeit their benefits for up tothree years. This will create a welfare systemthat is fair but firm.Boost small business
In the end, it is not the state that createssustainable employment – it is business people.And small businesses are especially importantto the UK’s economic recovery and to tacklingunemployment. Government can help boostenterprise by lowering tax rates, reducingregulation and improving workers’ skills.As well as stopping Labour’s jobs tax, for thefirst two years of a Conservative governmentany new business will pay no EmployersNational Insurance on the first ten employees ithires during its first year.To support small businesses further, we will:• make small business rate relief automatic;and,• aim to deliver 25 per cent of governmentresearch and procurement contracts throughSME s by cutting the administrative costs ofbidding.We will support would-be entrepreneursthrough a new programme – Work for Yourself– which will give unemployed people directaccess to business mentors and substantialloans. We need to make work pay, so we willkeep the minimum wage and work to reducethe very high marginal tax rates faced by manypeople on low incomes who want to return towork or increase their earnings. We will lookat how to abolish the default retirement age, asmany older people want to carry on working.And we will force equal pay audits on anycompany found to be discriminating on thebasis of gender.Improve skills and strengthenhigher education
Developing economies are able to providehighly-skilled work at a fraction of the costof British labour. The only way we cancompete is by dramatically improving theskills of Britain’s workforce, yet thousandsof young people leave school every yearwithout the skills they need to get a good
job. A Conservative government will notaccept another generation being consignedto an uncertain future of worklessness anddependency.We will promote fair access to universities,the professions, and good jobs for young peoplefrom all backgrounds. We will use fundingthat currently supports Labour’s ineffectiveemployment and training schemes, such asTrain2Gain, to provide our own help for peoplelooking to improve their skills. This will allowus to:• create 400,000 work pairing, apprenticeship,college and training places over two years;• give SME s a £2,000 bonus for everyapprentice they hire;• establish a Community Learning Fund tohelp people restart their careers; and,• create a new all-age careers service so thateveryone can access the advice they need.To meet the skills challenge we face, thetraining sector needs to be given the freedomto innovate. We will set colleges free fromdirect state control and abolish many of thefurther education quangos Labour have put inplace. Public funding will follow the choices ofstudents and be delivered by a single agency,the Further Education Funding Council.Universities contribute enormously to theeconomy. But not all of this contribution comesdirectly – it can come from fundamentalresearch with no immediate application – anduniversities also have a crucial cultural role.We will ensure that Britain’s universities enjoythe freedom to pursue academic excellenceand focus on raising the quality of the studentexperience. To enable this to happen, we will:• delay the implementation of the ResearchExcellence Framework so that it can bereviewed – because of doubts about whetherthere is a robust and acceptable way ofmeasuring the impact of all research;• consider carefully the results of LordBrowne’s review into the future of highereducation funding, so that we can unlockthe potential of universities to transform oureconomy, to enrich students’ lives throughteaching of the highest quality, and toadvance scholarship; and,• provide 10,000 extra university places thisyear, paid for by giving graduates incentivesto pay back their student loans early on anentirely voluntary basis.

