Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228050002.txt

Party Manifesto: Green (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

forewordBusiness as usual, brought to you by the main political parties, has given us a series oflinked economic, environmental and social crises.Why would you trust these same partiesto sort the crises out? The state of Britain in May 2010 cries out for fresh thinking and newprogressive voices.What have the other parties got to offer?The financial crisis has torn the veil from the Tories’ ‘compassionate conservatism’.They will let the market rip, roll back the State, and hope that the voluntary sector will pickup the pieces. It is hard to imagine a recipe more guaranteed to deepen inequality anddestroy the planet than this – yet that is what David Cameron offers you.New Labour has its back to the wall in the far corner of the last chance saloon. After thirteenyears in power its fingerprints are all over the unjust and unsustainable economy that thenew Government will inherit. New Labour is stimulating the economy through increasingconsumption – exactly the wrong thing to do.The Liberal Democrats – the ‘nice party’ – have just got nastier. The fig-leaf of higher taxesfor the wealthy has gone, and Nick Clegg has imposed a ‘the state is a problem’ mentalityon his party.Unlike any of the other parties, we believe this is exactly the time to address the risinginequality which has so disfigured our society in recent years.We want to address the tripleeconomic, environmental and social crises, and give every member of our society theopportunity to have a better life. Only the Green Party understands the need for a neweconomic and environmental settlement, in which our economy and our environmentwork with rather than against each other, for the benefit of all.So I urge you to vote Green on May 6th for a fairer world.Caroline Lucas, Green Party Leader

introductionThe Green Party is the party of hope and radical change.Years and years of politics as usual have given us broken communities and remote services,financial chaos and environmental breakdown.But there is an alternative: a transforming green alternative.Across the country voters have already found out that the Green Party is different to all the rest.Over 100 Green councillors have been elected in recent years. Green policies link strong localcommunities and public services, fairness and sustainability. The two Green Party LondonAssembly Members, Jenny Jones and Darren Johnson, have ensured huge investments incommunities and services, and continue to defend these in the face of cuts from the currentConservative Mayor. The two Green Party MEPs, Caroline Lucas and Jean Lambert, have led thecause of equality and sustainability in Brussels. In Scotland, Green Party MSPs have done thesame in the Scottish Parliament. Everywhere, Greens get elected and stay elected.Now it’s Westminster’s turn.This General Election is a historic opportunity to turn local, London, Euro and Scottish successinto UK success. For the first time ever, the Green Party can break the Westminster monopolyand take a creative, radical and independent new voice into Parliament to address the unprecedentedtimes we are in. This is a breakthrough moment, and you can be part of it.Throughout Britain voters have learned that the only wasted vote is a vote you don’t believe in.New thinking is needed for the challenges and opportunities we face. There are threedefining crises of our time: a debt-fuelled economy teetering on the edge of collapse andhaemorrhaging jobs, massive inequality of income and assets, and catastrophic climate change.We need to tackle these crises together, and only the Green Party knows how.We have been consistently ahead of our time, calling for what was needed before others evenrecognised the need.We’ve been proven right time and time again about the threats facing thecountry and this, our one and only world. Now is the time to trust us to deal with thosethreats, and lead the way to a better life for us all.
We are living in a time of great change and therefore great opportunity. The world is openingup and the old rules are being thrown to the four winds. If we believe in something better,now is a time when we can actually achieve it. Our challenge to you is to dare to dream thebetter future and to work with us to make it happen.At the heart of our joined-up approach is the Green New Deal.Ever since coining the phrase with her colleagues in the Green New Deal group of economistsin the summer of 2008, Green MEP and Party Leader Caroline Lucas has led the way on thisground-breaking proposal to tackle the three crises of economic collapse, inequality and climatechange. The Green New Deal is all about investing massively to create jobs and move towards asustainable, zero-carbon economy.Private enterprise can’t bring the jobs and the people together, so the Government has to act,just as the US Government did in the 1930s, to train and employ unemployed people to do thework required.Green MPs will fight to move the management of money from the casino capitalism underlyingthe current collapse to productive, useful investment. This will relieve unemployment and kickstartthe move towards a zero-carbon energy system. It will stabilise the economy generally,lead to new and attractive ways of investing personal savings and pension funds, create morefairness, and bring back a sense of purpose to an economy characterised by drift, profiteeringand consumerism.Britain is at a crossroads. More financial chaos and environmental breakdown, or policies thatmake good social and environmental sense? Cutbacks in public services, or good-quality localschools and health services? More relentless materialism or a fairer, more satisfying, moreaffordable life?It’s your choice.Trust the Green Party, and together we can make it happen.

our visionSome will tell you that ‘green’ issues are a luxury in times ofeconomic hardship. Wrong. Green policies are essential if we areto get out of this mess and create a sustainable and fair economy.Our vision is of a fairer society that meets everyone’s needs,and an economy working with nature rather than against it.Of a more equal society. Of higher incomes for pensioners ratherthan bonuses for bankers. Of quieter, cleaner, safer streets.Of stronger local communities and the space for children to playand learn. Of healthier, safer, better food and the quality timeto appreciate it. Of a natural world left more to itself.This dream is achievable. All it requires is political courage – andpopular democratic backing for that courage. Only the Greenswant to see the back of rampant inequality, deregulation andlaissez-faire. Only the Greens have understood the lessons ofthe financial crisis, and know what to do about it. Only the GreenParty has a vision for Britain that will see a better quality of lifefor everyone.

