Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228070010.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Social Security

Welfare provision is an area in pressing need of reform, not just because it absorbs over £100 billion per year or 35% of the national budget, but also because benefit payments provide disincentives to work, self-provision, and help within the family and community. But the reform of welfare policy is politically difficult because a large proportion of the population receives payments, and because an increasing amount of our social law is being forced to follow EU norms.

Not surprisingly, the efforts of successive governments to tackle these problems have been disappointing. Too often, changes have been to minor details such as the conditions applied in means testing, rather than any fundamental aspects of the system. And this continuous revision of the rules has had the adverse effect of adding even more complexity to an already complex system. This has had a number of unfortunate consequences. First, there has been an increase in the numbers of people who do not claim their entitlements because they are unable to complete the necessary forms, or are unwilling to answer all the demeaning questions. Secondly, each new complication adds to the administrative cost which is already over £3 billion. Finally, the more complex the system, the easier it is for benefit cheats to find ways of avoiding detection, and the more tiresome it is for officials to attempt to check up on them.

A further unfortunate result of expanding state provision and other government policies has been to undermine the family as the basic stable unit of society. The family, preferably with two committed parents, is the best environment for raising secure and confident children. In this connection, the UKIP will restore tax advantages to married couples with children under the age of eighteen. We shall also review current legal practices that seem to favour divorce and allow parents to escape financial and moral responsibility for their children.

While the benefit system clearly merits wholesale reform, the UKIP's first priority will be simplification. Our objective will be to make the rules as transparent as possible in order to cut down on administration, to make claiming easier for those who are genuinely entitled to payments, and to reduce the opportunities for fraud. The general objective of other reforms will be to free as many as possible from benefit culture by ensuring that the net income gained from working, either part-time or full-time, is always greater than the benefits foregone. Benefits should also be more easily transferable from one authority to another in order to facilitate labour mobility.

One particular option that we intend to consider is the replacement of benefit payments in certain cases by a basic income which would not be withdrawn if the individual takes on part-time employment. We envisage that unemployed workers with more then twenty years work experience, and single mothers with school age children may be among those who would qualify for such assistance. In particular this should be considered for 'post-industrial' areas, where mature skilled workers cannot find employment. Advantages of a basic income are that it is straightforward to administer and not so open to fraud.

The main aim of the UKIP's benefit policy will be to reduce the numbers of those who need it, and to restore people to independence from benefits and to the dignity that comes with it.

