Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040173.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Government to Buy Spy Drone Planes to Monitor Islamists in Britain: BNP Manifesto Proven Correct
April 26, 2010

The British National Partys manifesto warning that civil liberties are being eroded by the disastrous multicultural experiment has been proven accurate by the announcement that the Government is to buy American spy drone planes to monitor Islamists on British soil.

According to reports, the Global Hawk unmanned drone, currently used by the American army to locate Al Qaeda and Taliban hideouts in Pakistan and Afghanistan, will soon be used to patrol British cities to search for hidden terror cells.

MI5 and GCHQ already use three Britten-Norman Islander aircraft based at RAF Northolt in North-West London to spy on British citizens.

The aircraft are fitted with surveillance equipment which listens in on telephone conversations and compares voice patterns to recordings of Taliban and Al Qaeda communications taped in Afghanistan.

The voice patterns  Muslims living in Britain who have fought alongside the Islamists  are then checked to see if any of these people have returned to Britain.

According to reports, the 23 million aircraft has not been available for foreign sale. This policy has now been changed and Britain is on the verge of purchasing several drones after a successful test flight over Wales.

The drones have a much longer operation airtime capability  30 hours nonstop  and are equipped with other sophisticated equipment which puts them one step ahead of the Britten-Norman Islander aircraft.

In its manifesto, launched last week, the BNP foresaw the increasing expansion of surveillance and spying in Britain which is the inevitable consequence of the failed multicultural experiment.

In a section headed Terrorism and the Growth of the Totalitarian State, the BNP manifesto said: The BNP condemns the erosion of essential democracy in Britain which has developed partly as a result of the increasingly disastrous multicultural experiment.

Britain today faces domestic terrorism from Islamists as never before in our history  caused directly by the twin policies of mass immigration and a biased Middle Eastern foreign policy.

On the one hand, the old gang parties have encouraged mass immigration which has created a large pool of disaffected Muslims in Britain, and on the other hand the same parties have actively pursued aggressive foreign policies which have served to incite the now UK-resident Islamic population.

The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have provided extra fuel to Islamists seeking to recruit terrorists from the millions-strong Muslim population in Britain.

In other words, the old parties have created the perfect storm for terrorism in Britain  and now used this self-created problem to justify ever-increasing repressive legislation and the destruction of our civil liberties.

A prime example is the Civil Contingencies Act which grants ministers wide-ranging powers during an emergency, including the right to amend any act of parliament except the Human Rights Act.

Islamist terrorism in Britain will not be stopped by repressive laws, but by dealing with the immigration problem and adopting a neutral foreign policy, the BNP manifesto said.

Posted in National News | Comments (63)

