Sturgeon: We will argue for a fair deal for police
Wed, 01/04/2015 - 12:50

First Minister Nicola Sturgeon earlier today gave a speech to the Scottish Police Federation conference at Turnberry.

During the speech, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said:

"Westminster austerity has not delivered economically and it is causing damage to our communities.

"In hitting vulnerable people the hardest austerity can threaten cohesion across communities and it can only make the job you do as public servants on the frontline harder.

"Police reform has been the biggest public service reform in a generation. Reform is safeguarding all we value in policing from Westminster budget cuts. We only have to look south of the Border where officer numbers have plummeted and morale is rock bottom - to see the benefits of our approach.

"Had we mirrored the calamitous approach of the UK Government, we would have 2,600 fewer officers than our commitment of 17,234. That would take one in six officers out of the service.

"But continued austerity will make it harder to deliver the police service we want. And there are three things we will do in Westminster to secure that service for you.

"Firstly we will oppose austerity. Instead we have proposed modest increases in spending that would help to support our public services, invest in infrastructure and end the damage being done by UK cuts.

"There is no need for a further £30bn of cuts in the next two years. It is simply an act of social and economic vandalism and we will use our influence at Westminster to bring it to an end.

"Secondly – we will argue for a fair deal for Scotland’s police service. Police Scotland is the only police authority in the UK unable to recover VAT and is liable to an annual cost of around £23 million. The Scottish Fire and Rescue Service is similarly disadvantaged, and is liable for an annual cost of around £10 million. That is money that could and should be spent on frontline policing.

"And – as was agreed in the Smith Commission – the revenue from court fines and fees should come to Scotland, there should be no limit on the amount of funding from proceeds of crime that we are able to secure and invest instead of handing to the Treasury. SNP MPs will make sure that commitment is delivered."
