Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060020.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

change society | build the big society

Build the Big Society
We will use the state to help stimulate social action, helping social enterprises to deliver publicservices and training new community organisers to help achieve our ambition of every adultcitizen being a member of an active neighbourhood group. We will direct funding to those groupsthat strengthen communities in deprived areas, and we will introduce National Citizen Service,initially for 16 year olds, to help bring our country together.

The size, scope and role of government inthe UK has reached a point where it is nowinhibiting, not advancing, the progressive aimsof reducing poverty, fighting inequality, andincreasing general well-being. We can’t go onpretending that government has all the answers.Our alternative to big government is the BigSociety: a society with much higher levels ofpersonal, professional, civic and corporateresponsibility; a society where people cometogether to solve problems and improve lifefor themselves and their communities; a societywhere the leading force for progress is socialresponsibility, not state control.The Big Society runs consistently throughour policy programme. Our plans to reformpublic services, mend our broken society,and rebuild trust in politics are all part ofour Big Society agenda. These plans involveredistributing power from the state to society;from the centre to local communities, givingpeople the opportunity to take more controlover their lives.
But we recognise that it is not enough to createopportunities for people to get involved inbuilding the Big Society; our reform plansrequire a social response in order to besuccessful. So building the Big Society is notjust a question of the state stepping back andhoping for the best: it will require an activerole for the state. The state must take actionto agitate for, catalyse and galvanise socialrenewal. We must use the state to helpremake society.Public service reformOur public service reform programme willenable social enterprises, charities andvoluntary groups to play a leading role indelivering public services and tacklingdeep-rooted social problems.We will strengthen and support socialenterprises to help deliver our public servicereforms by creating a Big Society Bank, fundedfrom unclaimed bank assets, to providenew finance for neighbourhood groups,charities, social enterprises and other nongovernmentalbodies.This will provide social enterprises with thestart-up funding and support they need tobid for government contracts or work towardsdelivering services under a payment byresults model.Britain has a proud and long-standingcharitable tradition, and we are convincedthat the voluntary sector should play a majorpart in our civic renewal. We will introducea fair deal on grants to give voluntary sectororganisations more stability and allow them toearn a competitive return for providing publicservices. We will work with local authorities topromote the delivery of public services by socialenterprises, charities and the voluntary sector.Neighbourhood groupsOur reform agenda is designed to empowercommunities to come together to address localissues. For example, we will enable parentsto start new schools, empower communitiesto take over local amenities such as parksand libraries that are under threat, giveneighbourhoods greater control of the planningsystem, and enable residents to hold the policeto account in neighbourhood beat meetings.These policies will give new powers and rightsto neighbourhood groups: the ‘little platoons’of civil society – and the institutional buildingblocks of the Big Society.Our ambition is for every adult in the countryto be a member of an active neighbourhoodgroup. We will stimulate the creation anddevelopment of neighbourhood groups, whichcan take action to improve their local area. Wewill use Cabinet Office budgets to fund thetraining of independent community organisersto help people establish and run neighbourhoodgroups, and provide neighbourhood grants tothe UK’s poorest areas to ensure they play aleading role in the rebuilding of civic society.To stimulate social action further, we will:• transform the civil service into a ‘civicservice’ by making sure that participationin social action is recognised in civilservants’ appraisals;• launch an annual Big Society Day tocelebrate the work of neighbourhood groupsand encourage more people to take partin social action;• provide funding from the Big Society Bankto intermediary bodies with a track recordof supporting and growing social enterprises;and,• develop a measure of well-being thatencapsulates the social value of state action.

National Citizen ServiceBuilding the Big Society means encouragingthe concept of public-spirited service – the ideathat everyone should play a part in making theircommunities stronger.That is why we will introduce National CitizenService. The initial flagship project will providea programme for 16 year olds to give them achance to develop the skills needed to be activeand responsible citizens, mix with peoplefrom different backgrounds, and start gettinginvolved in their communities.Even in these difficult times, the British peoplehave demonstrated their desire to give moneyand time to good causes. We will introducenew ways to increase philanthropy, and use thelatest insights from behavioural economics toencourage people to make volunteering andcommunity participation something they doon a regular basis.The National LotteryWe will restore the National Lottery to itsoriginal purpose and, by cutting down onadministration costs, make sure more moneygoes to good causes. The Big Lottery Fundwill focus purely on supporting social actionthrough the voluntary and community sector,instead of Ministers’ pet projects as at present.Sports, heritage and the arts will each see theiroriginal allocations of 20 per cent of good causemoney restored.Sport and the OlympicsWe will deliver a successful Olympics thatbrings lasting benefits for the country as awhole. Part of the community sports budgetof the National Lottery will be responsiblefor delivering an Olympic legacy, includingthe vigorous promotion of competitive sportsthrough a national Olympic-style schoolcompetition. To support high-level sportfurther, we will:work with the Scottish government • to delivera top-quality Commonwealth Games inGlasgow in 2014;• ensure that the 2013 Rugby League andthe 2015 Rugby Union World Cups aresuccessful; and,• strongly support England’s bid to host the2018 Football World Cup.
