Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060031.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------


Strengthen the Union
We are a unionist party and we will not put the Union at risk. But we support devolution and arecommitted to making it work for all countries. We will take forward the proposals of the CalmanCommission, grant a referendum on greater powers for the Welsh Assembly, and support thedevolved institutions in Northern Ireland. We will rebalance the unfairness in the voting systemfor devolved issues in Parliament.

In recent years, we have been hearing thingsthat we have not heard for a long time: peoplein Scotland saying they want to leave the UK,and some people responding with ‘let themgo’. Labour’s constitutional vandalism hasweakened Parliament, undermined democracyand brought the integrity of the ballot intoquestion. Our unbalanced devolution settlementhas caused separatism to gather momentum inScotland, and separatists have propped upa weakened Labour Party in Wales.The Conservative Party is passionate about theUnion and we will never do anything to put itat risk. And, because of the new political forcewe have created with the Ulster Unionists, weare proud that at the next election we will be theonly party fielding candidates in every part ofthe UK.Support devolutionWe support the changes proposed bythe Calman Commission for clarifyingthe devolution settlement and creating arelationship of mutual respect betweenWestminster and Holyrood:
• The Prime Minister and other Ministerswill go to Holyrood for questioning ona regular basis.• The Scottish Parliament should have moreresponsibility for raising the money it spends.We will produce our own White Paper byMay 2011 to set out how we will deal withthe issues raised by Calman, and we willlegislate to implement those proposalswithin the next Parliament.We will not stand in the way of the referendumon further legislative powers requested bythe Welsh Assembly. The people of Waleswill decide the outcome and Conservativeswill have a free vote. But our priorityremains getting people back into work andstrengthening the Welsh economy. So we willseek ways to work with the Welsh AssemblyGovernment to increase economic growth andimprove people’s quality of life.In Northern Ireland, we strongly supportthe political institutions established over thepast decade and we are committed to making
devolution work. We will continue to promotepeace, stability and economic prosperityand work to bring Northern Ireland backinto the mainstream of UK politics. We willproduce a government paper examining themechanism for changing the corporation taxrate in Northern Ireland, in order to attractsignificant new investment. And we will stopthe practice of ‘double-jobbing’, wherebyelected representatives sit in both Westminsterand Stormont.Labour have refused to address the so-called‘West Lothian Question’: the unfair situationof Scottish MPs voting on matters whichare devolved. A Conservative government willintroduce new rules so that legislation referringspecifically to England, or to England andWales, cannot be enacted without the consentof MPs representing constituencies of thosecountries.

