Text ID:
uk_pm_el_83_228080023.txt

Party Manifesto: SDP/All (uk) - National Elections 1983
-------------------------------------

Helping the World's Poor

Conservative policy towards the poor countries of the world has been mean and short sighted, reducing the level of British aid and effectively excluding Third World students from our higher education system. The widespread pursuit of restrictive policies has plunged the world into the worst slump for 50 years, and the poor countries have suffered most. On the other hand, Labour's restrictive trade policies would be extremely damaging to the developing world. There is no hope for them or for the rest of the world if protection leads on to waves of retaliation and countries destroy each other's markets, sending the world economy spiralling further downwards.

We want to do two things. First, to advocate joint policies, to be developed and implemented by the major industrial countries, to take the world out of slump. We advocate co-ordinated action:

    a) joint expansionary measures following the example of the 1978 Bonn Economic Summit, so that the main countries expand together, so managing to avoid balance of payments difficulties and the inflationary consequences of collapsing currencies;
    b) monetary stability. Co-operation between the three main currency blocs - the US, Japan and the EMS (including Britain) - to keep their currencies stable;
    c) Additional finance for the developing world so that general expansion is not frustrated by credit constraints - increased resources for the IMF and World Bank, and fresh issues of international money (Special Drawing Rights). 

International policies of this kind could chart the way out of recession. In so doing they would help developing countries - and, indeed, the developed countries alike - than any foreseeable increases in levels of aid. However, Britain has a significant individual contribution to make to Third World development through its own aid programme. An Alliance government would:

    increase the proportion of GNP spent on aid over 5 years to 0.7 per cent;
    concentrate aid on the poorest countries and on the poorest people in those countries;
    increase financial support for the work of voluntary agencies, stressing urgent projects;
    promote more generous funding for overseas students, especially those from the poorest countries and the poorest students from other countries;
    support the principles of the Brandt Report, and in particular the proposals for increased credit through the international institutions. 

