Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040088.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Confirmation that Immigrants Are Poaching Swans
April 2, 2010
Poaching in Peterborough: A riverside dwelling

Poaching in Peterborough: A riverside dwelling

Swans, ducks and freshwater fish are being illegally harvested by Eastern European immigrants, as witnesses finally come forward to describe the horrific clubbing to death of swans in Peterborough.

It has long been suspected that immigrant poachers were killing the Queens swans, but the allegations were always dismissed by pro-immigration leftists who described the accounts as racist urban myths.

Last week the suspicions of the indigenous locals were confirmed when an eyewitness contacted the authorities and described how he saw a group of immigrants beating a captured swan to death on the riverbank, and dragging the carcass back to their riverside shanty town.

Council workers attempting to clear foliage from the riverbank were shocked to find a swans graveyard, where the perpetrators had tried to hide a crime that used to qualify as treason, until New Labour came to power.

Local anglers have also noticed a sharp decline in fish stocks, and say that this coincides with the arrival of the first of Peterboroughs 16,000 immigrants six years ago, with species such as Bream, Carp and Tench the most pressurised.

Incidentally, these three species are delicacies in Eastern Europe.

It is illegal to fish any freshwater species between March 15th and June 15th, as this is the closed season that allows fish stocks to replenish themselves, but immigrant hunter-gatherers are poaching the large pregnant female fish.

The immigrants are reportedly using the cruel long line fishing technique, which involves leaving a line with multiple hooks across the river overnight. Captured fish can be distressed for as long as 12 hours before theyre dispatched.
Painful: A typical Triple Hook

Painful: A typical Triple Hook

The technique used to capture swans and ducks is even more gruesome.

Reportedly the poachers hide triple hooks  usually reserved for game fish species  inside bread; the ducks swallow the bread, and the hook becomes lodged in their throats, allowing the immigrants to drag them to the riverbank and to their deaths.

Muslim Conservative Councillor Mahmood Fazal, who represents the central ward in Peterborough, attempted to defend the rape of the river by claiming that the immigrants didnt know the law, this despite the placing of signposts explaining the law in all major Eastern European languages.
Crystal Clear: Anti-poaching sign aimed at immigrant poachers

Crystal Clear: Anti-poaching sign aimed at immigrant poachers

Incidents of this nature are not confined to the Peterborough area, theyre concentrated in areas which have come under sustained colonisation in recent years.

Drew Traynor, a BNP supporter in Northern Ireland, has been patrolling his local river and documenting evidence of poaching by Eastern Europeans:
Exhibit 1: A plastic carrier bag containing the remains of poached Bream and Perch.

Exhibit A: A plastic carrier bag containing the remains of poached Bream and Perch.
Exhibit 2: The remains of a Swan.

Exhibit B: The remains of a Swan.
Exhibit 3: The filleted carcasses of eight adult Pike. This is what remains of the entire adult population of this species in the locality.

Exhibit C: The filleted carcasses of eight adult Pike. This is what remains of the entire adult population of this species in the locality.

Local authorities have promised to tackle the problem, but their efforts will remain hindered by leftists groups who refuse to accept the evidence provided by concerned locals.

Posted in Michael Wood, National News | Comments (225)

