Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040104.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


BNP to Contest 326 Seats as Officials Unite Behind Nick Griffin at Special Meeting
April 5, 2010

BNP-officials-meeting

The British National Party will contest 326 parliamentary seats at the general election, over 120 key party officials and organisers were told today as they united unanimously behind Nick Griffin at a special meeting called to discuss recent events in the party.

The special meeting was given details  including a tape recording  of serious potential offenses committed by the former publicity director of the party, Mark Collett.

Amongst the details revealed were serious issues with regard to the pricing of leaflets and a series of front companies which appear to have been set up with the intention of skimming off printing bills, and a short snippet of a recorded conversation with Mr Collett.

The meeting decided unanimously to appoint a four man strong subcommittee to listen to the entire tape recording and report to the crowd on its full contents and implications.

Councillor Michael Simpkins, a former RAF police officer, then reported back after a break that the tape was genuine and was of a conversation between Mr Collett and party treasurer David Hannam.

Mr Simpkins said it was clear from the tape that the police would be able to investigate a number of potential crimes including threats to murder, assault, fraud and falsification of accounts.

The meeting was informed that the police were in possession of a copy of the tape which had formed the basis of the arrest and subsequent questioning of Mr Collett last Thursday.

The meeting agreed unanimously to leave the matter in the hands of the police.

A message from former party manager Emma Colgate was read out by Mr Griffin in which she warned that fake Facebook and YouTube accounts were being set up in her name with the obvious intention of sowing confusion.

All of these fake accounts should be reported as fraudulent so that they can be closed down, Ms Colgate said.

It was also announced that former national elections officer Eddy Butler was still very much with the BNP and is set to play a leading role in the partys attempt to take control of the Barking and Dagenham council.

Newly-appointed national elections officer Clive Jefferson paid tribute to Mr Butlers work and then outlined some new strategies he would be introducing for boosting the BNPs vote in coming electoral contests.

Mr Jefferson also assured the delegates that there was no interruption to the leaflet production process and that a new graphic designer had already been sourced and had started work.

Mr Griffin then announced that the party would be contesting a grand total of 326 seats in the coming election.

This is the greatest effort in the history of British nationalism, Mr Griffin said. This is a tribute to how far this party has come and of the tremendous dedication of all its activists. Now, lets put this latest business behind us and concentrate on getting the nation-wreckers out of office, he said to loud applause.

Posted in National News | Comments (207)

