Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228050009.txt

Party Manifesto: Green (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

Everyday Life

local living
The quality of our lives depends a greatdeal on the quality of our local services.None of us wants to travel miles to go toschool or to the doctor. Services must beaccessible. This means they must be easyand affordable to reach by public transport –and within walking distance in urban areas.It also makes environmental sense to havegood local services. Less travel means lesscarbon.We all live in local communities of one sortor another. Our communities are where wetake action when we want to do things,when we want to change things, when wewant to make a difference. This is why theGreen Party believes that issues should bedecided at a local level whenever possible.Decentralise and relocalise. Trust citizensto make the change.Key services must be free at the point ofdelivery. The Green Party believes that weshould pay for these services with a taxationsystem that promotes fairness and rewardsbehaviour that’s good for society and goodfor the environment.The Green Party will reverse the trendtowards the liberalisation, privatisation andderegulation of public services and utilities.Services must be easily available to everyonewho needs them. The poor and the vulnerablesuffer most when they are far away or tooexpensive, but we are all affected by theundermining of the social fabric and commonculture that good public services represent.The Private Finance Initiative (PFI) in particularhas been a giant scheme of outdoor relief forprivate contractors, equivalent in folly tobuying your house on a credit card.We would end it.The Green Party opposes the trend towardsbigger schools, hospitals, councils and prisons,and more centralised surgeries and Post Offices.Many so-called efficiency savings are bought
at a high social cost: isolation, inaccessibility,impersonality, remoteness. They also makeour communities less able to cope withchange. Communities and services must beon a human scale. Size matters. Quality localservices are much more important thanhaving a phony choice between a numberof distant ones.

Lewisham Deptford candidate Councillor Darren Johnsonprevents social service cutsGreens have campaigned hard to highlight and oppose any attempts to cut services to vulnerablepeople within Lewisham. In 2007, they managed to get £1.8m of cuts reversed and persuadedthe Mayor to reject the same proposals in 2008.A Green MP in Lewisham Deptford would have even greater influence in fighting cuts.

