Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228070004.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

Introduction
Time for CommonSense BritainUKIP believes that by leaving the EuropeanUnion Britain will regain three essentialFreedoms.Freedom of ActionNo longer will our country have to grovel tothe EU for permission to spend our own moneyto save our Post Offices, car plants or powerstations, or to negotiate our trade deals anddetermine our destiny.While we face serious challenges, the UK’s‘portfolio of power’ is still considerable. Britainis the world’s sixth largest economy, with Londonthe world’s largest financial centre. Britainis also a member of the G8 and G20 groupsof wealthy nations, the International MonetaryFund, World Bank, World Trade Organisation,the Commonwealth, and NATO as wellas being a nuclear power and one of only fivepermanent members of the UN Security Council.However, many of these global advantagesare threatened by the conflicting demands ofbeing a member of the EU, where the UK nowhas only 9% of deciding votes.Freedom of ResourcesThe UK will save an extra £6.4 billion a year innet cash - already raised from existing UKtaxes - to spend how we wish. Even moremoney will be saved by scrapping EU red tapeon business, which cost £106 billion in 2008and will cost £356 billion by 2018 (accordingto a 2009 estimate from Open Europe). Wesimply cannot afford to remain in the EU.Freedom of the PeopleWe will no longer be governed by an undemocraticand autocratic European Union or ruledby its unelected bureaucrats, commissioners,multiple presidents and judges.UKIP will give power back to Westminster andto the people through binding national andlocal referenda and more effective, locallyelectedrepresentatives.Britain will be free to choose a new positivevision for her future, free from the EU straightjacket.The only way to bring about true change andmake a radical, positive, and dramaticdifference to the lives of the British people is forvoters to support UKIP at this election.These are the common sense policies that willhelp to deliver that true change.

