Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228070022.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Land management contracts

In addition to accommodating the needs of the countryside, and those who work in it, any payment scheme to farmers has to change the fundamental basis of agricultural support. The farmer must not be seen as the beneficiary of 'handouts' but must become a valued contractor providing services which the taxpayer wants and is prepared to pay for. To meet this requirement, the UKIP proposes a voluntary scheme which we have called the Land Management Contract Scheme (LMCS).

The basis of this scheme is that individual farmers would be invited to draw up specific contracts in respect of their farms, in which the style of land use and management would be agreed. This would include such parameters as crops grown, methods of cultivation, employment levels, animal stocking density and types of husbandry, pesticide and herbicide usage, public access, wildlife conservation and similar factors.

Support would be calculated on the basis of the notional income which would be generated by a highly intensive farm - where production efficiency was the only criterion. Payments would reimburse farmers for notional losses arising from compliance with contract conditions.

By this means, socially and environmentally desirable practices - including forestry - would be rewarded, without farmers suffering a loss of income.

Despite such provisions, there will be farms in remote or 'less favoured' areas (such as hill farms) which will not be competitive or provide an adequate living. In these circumstances, where there is a social benefit in maintaining agricultural activity - such as the maintenance of rural employment, landscape maintenance, wildlife conservation, etc. - additional support should be provided. The UKIP would favour channelling this additional support through an extension of the LMCS, thus encouraging farmers to deliver specific services in exchange for the payments made.

The UKIP would like to see more farmers converting to the organic system of agriculture. We are also concerned at the inability of UK producers to satisfy the growing demand for organic produce - and our increasing reliance on imported produce, much of which could readily be grown in this country. Support provisions will be accommodated in our LMCS.

Similarly, there should be recognition for farmers developing and converting to 'welfare friendly' methods of animal husbandry. Freedom from the EU will mean that Britain can maintain and improve upon its standards of animal welfare, without being dragged down to a 'European' mean. We oppose EU plans to 'harmonise' animal welfare legislation and so relax restrictions on cosmetic testing, guidelines on medical or scientific testing (vivisection) and the long-distance live transport of animals. The UKIP regards such indifference to animal cruelty as evidence of the inhuman and authoritarian nature of the EU project.

The UKIP believes that young people with suitable qualifications should be given special assistance to equip their own farms, through the medium of 'soft' loans. Landlords should be afforded tax breaks to let farms to suitable young applicants. We would also like to see a special hardship fund set up to buy out elderly farmers so that farms can be released onto the market intact, and thus made available to young farmers.

