Text ID:
uk_pm_el_83_228020023.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 1983
-------------------------------------

Transport

Four years of Tory government has meant serious damage to Britain's transport system. Profitable elements have been sold off. Important but unprofitable sections left in public hands are being starved of investment. The quality of public transport services has fallen disastrously.

Another Tory government would mean even poorer services, higher fares and lower safety standards. Labour repudiates this whole approach. We believe that the improvement of public transport must be a major social priority, which can only be achieved by a sensibly integrated transport system. We describe our proposals in Labour's Programme 1982.

We will maintain and improve the rail network, invest in the electrification of the main lines and replace worn-out railway stock. We will encourage the use of the railways for freight traffic by extending grants for rail freight facilities and encouraging the development of trans-shipment depots.

Heavy lorries will be made to bear their full share of road costs, including environment costs. We will cut to a minimum noise and pollution from goods vehicles and introduce national routeings and restrictions to take lorries away from people. Vehicle Excise Duty for private cars will be abolished and the revenue secured by a higher tax on petrol.

Labour believes that, together with a properly enforced licensing system, a publicly-owned share of the road haulage industry is essential. It would clearly be sensible for the National Freight Company to form part of this sector; and we are examining how best to bring this about.

We will ensure that local authorities are able to give proper support to public transport. In areas where more favourable concessionary travel on local transport does not exist, we shall bring in a nationwide, off-peak half-fares scheme for pensioners. A proper licensing system, to safeguard the network of bus services, will be reintroduced. We shall also ensure that a basic minimum level of service is provided throughout the country.

In addition, we will:

    Encourage the development of effective traffic management schemes to alleviate the problems of traffic congestion.
    Improve facilities and safety standards for cyclists and increase financial incentives to local authorities to assist these improvements.
    Give a high priority to building by passes.
    Establish a national shipping organisation able to acquire and operate shipping services; and protect our shipping and jobs from unfair foreign competition.
    Invest in inland waterways, and encourage the greater use of them - and of coastal shipping - in the interests of taking freight off our roads.
    Establish a new National Ports Authority to take ports into public ownership and to develop a new overall strategy for these.
    Create a National Transport Authority to develop transport policy and good practice, secure integration and facilitate comprehensive planning. 

