Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228040009.txt

Party Manifesto: BNP (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

Counter Jihad:Confronting the Islamic Colonisation of Britain• The BNP is implacably opposed to the Labour/Tory regime’s mass immigrationpolicies which, if left unchecked, will see Britain and most of Europe colonised byIslam within a few decades.• The BNP believes that the historical record shows that Islam is by its very natureincompatible with modern secular western democracy.• The BNP will ban the burka, ritual slaughter and the building of further mosquesin Britain.• The BNP believes that there should be absolutely no further immigration from anyMuslim countries, as it presents one of the most deadly threats yet to the survivalof our nation.• We propose the immediate deportation of all radical Islamist preachers, thoseproven to have attended any of their inflammatory sermons, and any other membersof their community who object to these reasonable security measures.• The BNP demands that Islamic immigration be halted and reversed as it presentsone of the most deadly threats yet to the survival of our nation.• The BNP is the only party to identify correctly the twin causes of Islamist terrorismin Britain: (a) mass immigration and (b) a biased British foreign policy which servesto incite Muslims living in Britain.Islam: Incompatible with Western DemocracyThe historical record shows that Islam has, since its formation, been waging an almost constant war against Europe, impelled by its Qur’anic verses to convert all peoples of the earth to its belief system.Created in conflict, every advance that Islam has made in the Middle and Near East, in Africa, and its attempts to invade Europe through Spain, the Balkans, and Italy, has been under the threat of the scimitar, the cannon, and murderous atrocities.Today Europe faces a renewed Muslim invasion. This time the weapons are no longer the steel blade or cannon: they are the passport, the visa stamp, corrupt liberal Western regimes who have allowed mass Third World immigration, and the baby’s crib.These things are the new weapons by which Islam now seeks to conquer Europe and the West, having failed in earlier centuries to conquer Europeans by force.The Demographic Facts- In 1900, Western Europe as a whole had just fifty thousand or so resident Muslims,almost all of them living in France.- In 1970, the figure was around three or four million in Western Europe.- In 2008, this figure was estimated to be in the region of 20 million — in Western Europe alone, and growing rapidly.- Europe as a whole, from Ireland to the Carpathians, presently has about 29 million Muslims (and will have 75 million more if Turkey is added to the European Union, as seems increasingly likely).- There are plans to build Europe’s largest mosque, capable of seating 40,000 worshippers, in London.- Muslim populations have a higher birth rate than that of Europeans. In Britain, the Muslim population is increasing ten times faster than any other segment of the population.- Increased immigration is set to boost the Muslim population even further, with conservative estimates pointing out that a combination of natural reproduction rates combined with falling European birth rates and increased immigration, will mean that many Western European nations will have Muslim populations of between 25 and 40 percent by 2035.- The extent of the Islamic colonisation of Britain has been underlined with the news that the Muslim vote will be “pivotal” in 82 constituencies in the forthcoming general election. According to a press release issued by the Muslim Public Affairs Committee (MPACUK), one of a myriad of front organisations dedicated to colonising Britain with the aid of the Tory/Labour immigration policy, the 82 constituencies have a Muslim population larger than the incumbent MPs’ majority.As a result, the Muslims are organising through the network of at least 1,600 formal mosques which already exist in Britain.The Five Characteristics of Islam in European Nations1. The first characteristic is a rise in anti-Semitism. This is driven by the clash betweenZionism, which supports the state of Israel, created at the expense of the largelyMuslim Palestinian population, and the Muslim Arab states. As Muslim populationsincrease, so does a violent anti-Zionism, which very often crosses over intoanti-Semitism.2. The second characteristic is the appearance of Islamic extremism amongst manyfirst, second or even third generation Muslim immigrants. This extremism has as itsprimary root the traditional Islamic call to spread its religious worldview to all people,by force if necessary.Other factors driving Islamic extremism include an understanding of the pro-Israelipolicies of most European nations, which in itself is seen as “anti-Palestinian” andtherefore anti-Muslim; and then also the involvement of many European nations inblatantly illegal and immoral wars in Muslim parts of the world, such as Iraq, whichhave been “justified” on the basis of patently transparent lies.3. The third characteristic of Muslim immigrant populations in European nations,which sets them apart from almost all other previous historical immigrantpopulations, is their refusal to take on the native culture, and instead import theiroriginating culture as part of a colonisation process.In this way, the dress (burkas, prayer coats, etc.), social behaviour (ritual animalsacrifice, religious practices which intrude, dominate, and drive away indigenouscultural practices — see mosque prayer calls in the traditionally British Christiancity of Oxford as a primary example), arranged marriages, and many other Islamiccultural attributes are maintained, taught, and encouraged, while indigenous cultureis deliberately suppressed.Examples are legion: Muslim medical students in Britain have refused to wash theirarms (standard practice for all medical procedures) because it would mean revealingparts of their bodies which they’re forbidden to show to strangers according toIslamic law.There are already 37 Muslim faith schools in London, and more are planned, allin a deliberate attempt to ensure that Islamic culture remains untouched by Westernsecularism.4. The fourth characteristic of Islamic immigrant populations is large scale socialunrest. This takes the form of violent street riots, as have happened almost everywherein Europe, but most noticeably in Paris and other French cities in recent years.It also takes the form of social exclusion at schools: Muslim students perform lesswell than non-Muslim students. In inner London, 37 percent of 16- to 24-year-oldMuslims have no qualifications. When it comes to university education the picture isequally gloomy: Muslims are half as likely to have degree level or above qualificationsthan other inner London young people.5. The fifth characteristic of immigrant Muslim populations in all nations has been theirwidespread support for terrorism. A survey of Muslim opinion in Britain, undertakenby NOP Research in 2006, revealed attitudes which have been shown to becommon to all Muslim immigrant populations:- Forty five percent of Muslims in Britain say that the World Trade Centre attacks of11 September 2001 were a conspiracy by the American and Israeli governments.This figure is more than twice as high as those who say it was not a conspiracy.- A quarter of all British Muslims believe that the London underground bombings ofJuly 2005 were justified because of British support for the US led “war on terror.”- When asked, “Is Britain my country or their country?”, 75 percent said that it wasnot their country.- Thirty percent of British Muslims would prefer to live under Sharia (Islamic religious)law than under British law. According to the report, “Half of those who express apreference for living under Sharia law say that, given the choice, they would moveto a country governed by those laws.”- Twenty eight percent hope for the UK one day to become a fundamentalist Islamicstate.- One-third of Muslims in Britain believe that Western society is decadent andimmoral and that Muslims should seek to end it.- Seventy eight percent support punishment for the people who publish cartoonsfeaturing the prophet Muhammad.- Sixty eight percent support the arrest and prosecution of British people who“insult Islam.”- When asked if free speech should be protected, even if it offends religious groups,62 percent of British Muslims chose the “no, it should not” answer.- “Hardcore Islamists” constitute 9 percent of the Muslim population in Britain.Twenty nine percent class themselves as “staunch defenders of Islam.” Individualsin this group aggressively defend their religion from internal and external threats,real or imagined.The Muslim Sex Grooming ScandalOther problems of a more serious nature have also emerged: in Britain, the practice of “grooming” — where young white females are lured in sex abuse traps by Muslim males has now been officially recognised as a real issue.The Times commented in an article on 11 August 2007, while reporting on the trial of two Muslim men convicted for the crime, that “The trial came amid growing concern at the attitudes of some Asian men towards white girls which campaigners for women claim few people wish to address. Parents have complained that in parts of the country with large Asian communities white girls as young as 12 are being targeted for sex by older Asian men yet the authorities are unwilling to act because of fears of being labelled racist. Although campaigners claim that hundreds of young girls are already being passed around men within the Asian community for sex . . . attempts to raise the problem with community leaders had met with little success, with most of them being in a state of denial about it” (“Grooming of white girls for sex is exposed as two Asian men jailed”, Times, 11 August 2007).The Real Threat of Islamist TerrorismBefore the London train bombings (carried out by first and second generation Muslim immigrants living in Britain), intelligence services estimated that one percent of Muslims in Britain either supported or were involved in terrorism.British intelligence services believe that, in recent years, 3,000 Muslims in Britain have been to al Qaeda training camps. Intelligence experts estimate that there are at least 1,200 Muslim radicals (80 percent of Pakistani origin) in Britain who have terrorist intentions.According to a report by the Home Office, 92 percent of all convicted terrorists in Britain are Muslim (“Statistics on Terrorism Arrests and Outcomes Great Britain”,Home Office, 26 November 2009).According to this report, there have been 1,661 terrorism arrests in Britain since 11 September 2001. This translates to 1,528 Islamist terrorists being convicted in the nine and a half years since 2001. Put another way, this means that a Muslim terrorist has been locked up at the rate of one every two days since 2001.Only a fool or a madman would deny the very real threat this poses to the stability of Britain or that it really is just some “fringe” minority.It is a serious, deadly threat which has already taken lives in the most severe acts of terrorism in the history of our nation.
The BNP’s Solution to the New JihadRadical Islam does not have multiculturalism or assimilation as its goal. Rather, it seeks total Islamic domination. The historical record alone should make this very clear, never mind the very open and blatant Qur’anic instructions in this regard.There are two problems facing Britain today: one is the Islamification of society, and the other is terrorism, or the “war on terror.”- The BNP will address the question of the Islamification of society by addressing the immigration invasion question outlined elsewhere in this document.No Muslim nation on earth would tolerate millions of Christians entering and seizing demographic control of their lands, and there is no reason why Britain and Europe should be any different.- The BNP will demand the right of each people to have their own culture, identity and heritage dominate in their ancestral homelands. In this regard, a BNP government would outlaw all overt signs of Islamic colonisation such as the burka, ritual slaughter, mosques and minarets (which are little more than symbols of territorial conquest).All of these measures will demonstrate to the world that the British nation is determined to resist the colonisation of its territory.- The BNP will also withdraw from the European Union, which seems set on committing national demographic suicide by allowing the 75 million strong Muslim population of Turkey to join. Turkey has already relaxed its visa requirements for a large number of Middle Eastern nations, and once in the EU, untold millions of Muslims will have free access to all lands of the EU.- The BNP will combat Islamist terrorism in Britain by halting and reversing Muslim immigration which will reduce the recruiting base for domestic terrorists, and by striking a peace treaty with the Islamic world.This peace treaty must stipulate that the Islamic world will stop trying to Islamify Britain and the West. In return, Britain will agree to refrain from interfering in the internal affairs of Islamic nations.This means no more war for oil, and a neutral Middle Eastern foreign policy, not favouring any group in the Middle East over any other.

