Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228060024.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

KNOWLEDGE, STANDARDS, CHOICE

The next Conservative Government will carry the Charter still further. There will be more information about standards and performance; clear standards set within public services which are still shrouded in mystery; more choice built into public services and proper complaints procedures introduced. Many of these are outlined later in the Manifesto under Education, Health, Local Government and Transport. Here are a few examples from the programme for the next two years:

    The Audit Commission will be able to publish league tables of performance including each local council and health authority so that people can compare the quality of service.
    We will ensure that inspection reports are published and widely available. All councils will have to respond in public to criticism from auditors.
    We will introduce a new 'Charterline' that people with questions or problems with a public service will be able to ring.
    We will require British Rail to tighten its targets for reliability and punctuality on all lines, and report monthly to passengers on how it is doing. London Underground will publish its own Charter.
    We will expect Post Offices and Job Centres to set out standards of service and levels of achievement.
    A new Charter Mark award will give recognition to those parts of the public service that best meet Charter standards.
    British Rail and London Underground are introducing compensation systems for travellers.
    We will review the powers of the Local Government Ombudsman to ensure that findings of maladministration are properly dealt with by all local authorities. We will consult on a new Lay Adjudicators scheme to help the public resolve difficulties and disputes. 

We will extend competition and accountability in public services. Those who provide public services will have to prove they can give the right quality at the right cost.

    We will extend compulsory competitive tendering to local authority housing management, and examine how to apply it to white-collar services. We will act to ensure that private firms bidding to improve local authority public services are not obstructed by unscrupulous practices in councils or by unfair contracts. We will pursue more competitive tendering for central government services.
    We will encourage the wider use of performance pay inside the Civil Service and in other parts of the public service. A link between a person's effort and his or her pay is a powerful means of improving performance.
    Civil servants dealing with the public will normally identify themselves by name.
    We will toughen inspection of key public services where choice and competition must inevitably be limited. We will introduce, for the first time, regular independent inspection of all schools.
    We will act to ensure that the inspectorates of police, fire, probation, and social services, together with any new inspectorates that are established, will be truly independent of the service which they inspect.
    We will ensure that the reports from these systematic regular inspections are published. More lay inspectors, drawn from other professions and from the general public, will bring fresh insights into service improvement.
    We will publish later this year new proposals for the inspection of social work in England, setting up arrangements for systematic independent inspection of all care services and every local authority social services department.
    Inspections of local authority homes will be carried out by teams that contain lay inspectors and are independent of the influence of the management of the homes. 

All of the privatised utilities have a specialist regulator who is responsible for promoting competition, reviewing prices and protecting the public interest. We have introduced legislation to increase the powers of these regulators to the level of the strongest.

    We are ensuring that the regulators have the powers they need to promote competition and safeguard the interests of the customer by controlling price increases. We will increase competition in the gas and water markets.
    We are giving the regulators powers to set standards of service, covering such matters as fixed appointment times for service calls. 

