Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228010029.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

5. Britain's Partners: European Partnership for the New Century

Liberal Democrats will take decisive steps towards a fully integrated, federal and democratic European Community. We believe that by sharing sovereignty and pooling power, Britain and its partners will be better able to achieve commoon goals for the economy, the environment, society and secuiryt than by acting alone. Our aim is to create a citizens' Europe in which power lies as close to the citizen as possible.

Making Britain's European Presidency Work

Very few of the proposals that we have set out in the preceding sections will be successful unless Britain is prepared to work in partnership within the Community. Following Maastricht, yet again Britain risks being left behind while the rest of Europe moves on.

Liberal Democrats want Britain to play a full role in creating a dynamic and democratic Europe. We will use Britain's six-month tenure of the Presidency of the Community's Council of Ministers to make a start on the real tasks that lie ahead: building a prosperous and integrated economy; correcting the democratic deficit, making Europe work for its citizens, not its institutions; widening the Community's membership; and helping to create a peaceful and stable new world order. We cannot expect Britain to influence the direction the Community takes in the next decade unless it is a full and enthusiastic member.

Our vision of the new Europe is of a federal community, where power is exercised at the lowest level consistent with good government. For us, federalism means decentralisation: passing powers down more than passing them up. The creation of Scottish, Welsh and English regional Parliaments therefore goes hand in hand with the promotion of more European cooperation and partnership, ensuring access to power for individuals and their communities right across Europe.

Building a Citizen's Europe

January 1993 will bring the single market. Economic and monetary union will follow by the end of the decade. Yet the Community is still too much an organisation for businessmen and bureaucrats instead of citizens and communities. We want to mould Europe's future in the interests of Europe's people.

Our priorities are:

    Economic and monetary union including the establishment of an independent European Central Bank and a single European currency. We will renounce the Conservatives' 'opt-out' clause and accept the timetalbe for EMU.
    Cooperation in research and innovation. We will encourage further collaboration within the EC on major scientific projects and the development of new technologies such as telecommunications, information technology and environmentally sustainable innovations.
    Action on the environment. Our environmental goals cannot be successfully achieved unless action is taken across the Community. The proposed European Environmental Agency must be established, a European energy policy drawn up and environmental subsidies and penalties applied Community-wide.
    An active regional and social policy. The single market and economic and monetary union will expose regions and firms to greater competition. This will be beneficial in the long run, but the EC must assist in the transitional period. We will renounce Britain's social chapter 'opt-out' and argue for a more flexible framework of social policy across the Community. The EC should set down minimum standards of health and safety and employee rights, leaving national governments and enterprises to decide how to meet them, subject ultimately to the judgement of the courts.
    Fundamental reform of the Common Agricultural Policy. We will ease the transition from the present wasteful and inefficient price support mechanism to market prices and direct support for farmers' incomes to achieve environmental and social goals, to be funded by savings made from the present intervention payment system.

Creating a New Democracy in Europe

The Communitiy's structure gives far too much weight to the Council of Ministers at the expense of the European Parliament, and, most importantly, of the individual citizen. Further moves to European union, and enlargement, must depend on the institutions of the EC becoming truly democratic.

We will:

    Set out the rights of the European citizen. We will work for a clear definition of the rights of the European citizen, and insist that these are common to all Community nationals. This must include common voting rights at local, national and European levels.
    Increase the democratic powers of the European Parliament. We will ensure that the Parliament becomes an effective partner with the Council in law-making, exercising in full the power of 'co-decision'.
    Introduce fair votes for the 1994 British elections to the European Parliament. The British citizen must no longer be denied the fair voting systems enjoyed by the citizens of every other European country.
    Make the Commission more accountable. The Parliament must have the power to confirm or deny the Council's nominee as President of the Commission, and then to approve or not the President's choice of Commissioners - and subsequently to sack them if necessary. We welcome the provisions of the Maastricht Treaty as a first step.
    Increase democracy and accountability in the Council of Ministers. We will argue to extend majority voting in the Council to cover all areas of Community policy other than constitutional and crucial security matters. When passing laws, the Council should meet in public.
    Improve national scrutiny of Ministers' actions in Europe. We will create a new Europe Committee of the House of Commons, and give our reformed House of Lords a special role in scrutinising developments in the Community.
    Prepare for Community enlargement, welcoming EFTA members and, when they are ready, the new deomcracies of Central and Eastern Europe. A Community with more members requires reformed and dynamic institutions.

Further moves to European Union, and enlargement, must depend on the institutions of the European Community becoming truly democratic.

