Text ID:
uk_pm_el_83_228020024.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 1983
-------------------------------------

Law, order and justice

Labour's aim is to ensure that all sections of the community are safe on the street and at home, free from the fear that crime generates. We believe that the police should have the support of the community, have their rights safeguarded, and be fairly paid. But we also believe that it is as much in the interests of the police, as of their local communities, that they are properly accountable and fully subject to the law. We will ensure that, throughout the country, the police are encouraged to return to the beat and therefore closer to the communities they serve. That is the best way of preventing and detecting crime.

We intend to protect the rights of individual suspects, while providing the police with sufficient powers to do their job effectively whilst not infringing the civil rights of individual suspects. We aim to create elected police authorities in all parts of the country, including London, with statutory responsibility for the determination of police policy within their areas. We will also:

    Launch a major initiative to help victims, including extending and simplifying the present Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme.
    Give priority to crime prevention as part of our action programme for run down estates.
    Bring about better co-ordination in the technical, support and information services of the police.
    Replace the present police complaints procedure with an independent system accountable to local communities, with minority police representation.
    Create community police councils to provide an opportunity for open discussion between police and the community as to the quality and manner of police provision.
    Introduce strict limits on searches of people in the street, searches of premises, the use of the power of arrest, and on the time a prisoner can be held in custody before being charged.
    Protect the rights of those in police custody, by giving revised Judges Rules, which safeguard those under arrest or interrogation, the force of law and, in England and Wales, take the role of prosecutor away from the police by implementing a public prosecutor system, on the Procurator Fiscal model.
    Repeal the Police and Criminal Evidence Bill, because it infringes the rights and freedoms of individuals.
    Disband the London Special Patrol Groups and local SPGs, which have increasingly been deployed in aggressive public order roles. 

Access to legal services

We will not allow people's legal rights to go by default. Accessible level services are essential to protect human rights. As described in Labour's Programme 1982, we will increase central government spending to set up new law centres and help existing ones, and to improve the legal aid scheme by widening its provisions. We will also introduce a system of appeals against the refusal of legal aid in criminal cases.

We will speed the extension of duty solicitor schemes to all magistrate courts and police stations in England and Wales. We will also introduce measures to help citizens to secure their legal rights in the areas of tribunal and welfare rights law.

We will co-ordinate the responsibility for advice and legal services so that ministerial responsibility is clearer and more direct. We will also establish a new Legal Services Commission to be responsible for the provision and financing of public legal services. Our aim is to ensure that the expertise and training of the legal profession should be geared far more than at present to those legal problems affecting ordinary people.

The penal system

No one concerned for human dignity and civil rights can find our prison system acceptable. We are determined to improve conditions. We do not accept that wives and children should be punished together with the prisoners. We will:

    Reduce the prison population by cutting many maximum sentence lengths for non-violent offenders. We will stop putting petty offenders into prison. We will expand non-custodial alternatives, and examine new penalties involving reparation and restitution to the victim. We will also introduce a maximum period of custody for those on remand, along the lines of the provisions in Scotland.
    Treat prisoners as human beings by providing reasonable conditions in our prisons. We will incorporate, in new, legally enforceable prison rules, minimum standards on such matters as cell space. And we will reduce unnecessary restrictions - for example on prisoners' correspondence.
    Refurbish urban prisons.
    Hand over all specialist services in prisons, such as medical care, to the normal community agencies.
    Establish a genuinely independent complaints and disciplinary procedure to replace the current board of visitors system; and provide better aftercare for those leaving prison, to help them resettle in the community.
    Improve the training, working conditions and job opportunities of prison officers.
    Examine the additional problems faced by women prisoners, especially those with young children. 

