Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060025.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------


change society | fight back against crime

Fight back against crime
We will fight back against the crime and anti-social behaviour that blights our communities.We will take steps to reduce the causes of crime, like poverty and broken families. We will put thecriminal justice system on the side of responsible citizens, take tougher measures against knifecriminals and crack down on the binge-drinking that leads to violence. We will cut paperwork to getpolice out on the street and give people democratic control over local policing. We will introducehonesty in sentencing and pay voluntary and private providers to reduce re-offending.

Recorded violent crime against the person hasrisen sharply under Labour, yet police officersspend more time on paperwork than they do outon patrol. Labour’s obsession with bureaucratictargets and box-ticking is hindering the fightagainst crime. Their string of broken promiseshas undermined people’s trust. We can’t goon with the police filling in forms instead offighting crime.A Conservative government will help to mendour broken society – by cracking down ondrink- and drug-fuelled violence, tacklingre-offending, and intervening early to stopyoung people getting onto the conveyor beltto crime – in order to reduce the causes ofcrime and anti-social behaviour.We will rebuild confidence in the criminaljustice system so that people know it is on theside of victims and working for law-abidingpeople, not criminals. And we will reform thepolice, giving them back their professionaldiscretion – getting them out of police stationsand onto the street, fighting and preventing
crime – in return for making them trulyaccountable to the people they serve.Targeted measures to reduce thecauses of crimeUnder Labour’s lax licensing regime,drink-fuelled violence and disorder are a blighton many communities. We will overhaul theLicensing Act to give local authorities andthe police much stronger powers to removelicences from, or refuse to grant licences to,any premises that are causing problems.In addition, we will:• allow councils and the police to shutdown permanently any shop or bar foundpersistently selling alcohol to children;• double the maximum fine for under-agealcohol sales to £20,000;• raise taxes on those drinks linked to antisocialdrinking, while abolishing Labour’snew ‘cider tax’ on ordinary drinkers;
• ban off-licences and supermarkets fromselling alcohol below cost price; and,• permit local councils to charge more for latenightlicences to pay for additional policing.We recognise the need for criminal sanctionslike ASBOs and fixed penalty notices, butthey are blunt instruments that often fail theirpurpose of deterring people from committingmore crime. We will introduce a seriesof early intervention measures, includinggrounding orders, to allow the police to useinstant sanctions to deal with anti-socialbehaviour without criminalising young peopleunnecessarily.Put the criminal justice systemon the side of the publicToday, almost four out of every five peoplefound guilty of a knife crime escape jail. Wehave to send a serious, unambiguous messagethat carrying a knife is totally unacceptable,so we will make it clear that anyone convictedof a knife crime can expect to face a prisonsentence. We will introduce mobile knifescanners on streets and public transport, andextend the length of custodial sentences thatcan be awarded in a Magistrates’ Court fromsix to twelve months.Our criminal justice system often lets downthe victims of crime, so we will ensure thatvictims and their families are better informedabout the progress of criminal proceedingsand release of offenders. So that the publiccan be confident their views are accountedfor in deciding sentences, we will examinethe case for greater Parliamentary scrutinyof sentencing guidelines. We will carry out afundamental review of legal aid to make it workmore efficiently, and examine ways of bringingin alternative sources of funding.We will change the law so that anyone actingreasonably to stop a crime or apprehend acriminal is not arrested or prosecuted, and wewill give householders greater legal protectionif they have to defend themselves againstintruders in their homes.We will implement the Prisoners’ Earnings Act1996 to allow deductions from the earningsof prisoners in properly paid work to be paidinto the Victims’ Fund. We will use this Fundto deliver up to fifteen new rape crisis centresand give existing rape crisis centres stable,long-term funding. To help stop sexual violencebefore it occurs, we will ensure that the schoolcurriculum includes teaching young peopleabout sexual consent.Reform the policeThe police should be focusing on police work,not paperwork. A Conservative governmentwill reduce the amount of paperwork that thepolice have to deal with, starting by scrappingthe stop form entirely and reducing the burdenof stop and search procedures. Any search willstill be recorded but by an officer radioing in,rather than filling in paperwork. To allow thepolice to focus on fighting crime, we will:• amend the health and safety laws that standin the way of common sense policing;• give police the power to identify offenders inorder to protect the public and prevent crime;• return charging discretion to the police forminor offences; and,• process criminals more quickly by videolinkingcustody cells and courts.Policing relies on consent. People want toknow that the police are listening to them,and the police want to be able to focus oncommunity priorities, not ticking boxes.We will replace the existing, invisible andunaccountable police authorities and makethe police accountable to a directly-electedindividual who will set policing priorities forlocal communities. They will be responsiblefor setting the budget and the strategy for localpolice forces, with the police retaining theiroperational independence.Giving people democratic control overpolicing priorities is a huge step forwardin the empowerment of local communities,and we will go further by giving people theinformation they need to challenge theirneighbourhood police teams to cut crime.We will oblige the police to publish detailedlocal crime data statistics every month, in anopen and standardised format.Extremists, serious criminals and others findour borders far too easy to penetrate. That iswhy we will create a dedicated Border PoliceForce, as part of a refocused Serious OrganisedCrime Agency, to enhance national security,improve immigration controls, and crackdown on the trafficking of people, weaponsand drugs. We will work with police forces tostrengthen arrangements to deal with seriouscrime and other cross-boundary policingchallenges, and extend collaboration betweenforces to deliver better value for money.Prisons with a purposeIn the last three years, 80,000 criminals havebeen released early from prison because theGovernment failed to build enough places.We are determined that early release will notbe introduced again, so we will redevelop theprison estate and increase capacity as necessaryto stop it. Under Labour, the number offoreign criminals in our prisons has more thandoubled. We will extend early deportation offoreign national prisoners to reduce further thepressure on our prison population.Many people feel that sentencing in Britainis dishonest and misleading. So we willintroduce a system where the courts canspecify minimum and maximum sentences for
