Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228010024.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

Protecting the Community

Over the past ten years recorded crime has risen faster than at any time in our history. Meanwhile, prison conditions have deteriorated and the public has lost confidence in the criminal justice system. Liberal Democrats will reverse this trend by:

    Creating safe and secure communities. We will give local authorities the powers to develop comprehensive community crime prevention programmes, improve services to victims and encourage Neighbourhood Watch and Safer City Programmes. We will pay special attention to the underlying social problems in high-crime areas, particularly to prevent young people drifing into crime.
    Putting more policy officers on the beat. We will redeploy police resources in order to increase police presence in local communities and establish local neighbourhood offices. We will decentralise budgetary control to police subdivisions. We will encourage recruitment campaigns and training for promotional to increase the number of women and ethnic minority officers in the police force and especially in the higher ranks. Multicultural and anti-racism training will also increase confidence in the police among minority ethnic communities. We will support the creation by the policy of new Racial Attacks Squads to monitor and coordinate action against racially-motivated attacks.
    Reforming the criminal justice system. We will establish a Ministry for Justice, merging the relevant functions of the Home Office and Lord Chancellor's Department. We will create the post of Public Defender, equivalent in status to the DPP and responsible for investigating alleged miscarriages of justice. We will extend legal aid, ensuring that justice is more widely available. We will encourage 'restorative justice', in which mediation between victims and offenders provides reparations for those who suffer from crime.
    Radically reforming conditions inside prisons, reducing overcrowding, improving prison officers' morale and punishing offenders where possible within the community. We will create women's units in prisons where feasible. We will extend the rights and responsibilities of prisoners along the lines recommended by the Woolf Report, and create the post of Prison Ombudsman.
    Amend the provision of the Asylum Bill. We will introduce improved welfare and legal rights for genuine asylum seekers and establish substantive rights of appeal.

