Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030097.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

SNP candidates to sign Community Charter
Sat, 17/04/2010 - 11:58

Every SNP candidate will sign a Community Charter  a pledge of
accessibility, accountability and openness  that is their commitment to Scotlands voters.

The Commitment, launched today by SNP Depute Leader Nicola Sturgeon and Glasgow East candidate John Mason, forms part of the SNPs manifesto and sets out the standards SNP members will follow if elected as Scotlands local and national champions.

At the heart of the Commitment is a promise to protect public services and to put the interests of constituents first.

The text of the pledge is as follows - 

Protect local services. Protecting local services is my number one
priority. I will argue for cuts to fall on trident nuclear weapons not
public services.

Constituency Office. I will open a constituency office as soon as possible that is in an accessible location and where I can always be contacted.

Regular Consultation. I will publish a monthly newsletter and make this available to all constituents. I will use this to conduct regular surveys of opinion in the constituency to keep me informed of the things that matter most to you.

Fortnightly Surgeries. I will hold a minimum of four surgeries a month, advertised locally across the constituency and will hold regular public meetings for constituents.

Openness on Expenses. I will publish all my office and personal expenses as an MP online and where the rules are tighter, will follow the restrictions on expenses that are in place in the Scottish Parliament.

Joining SNP Depute Leader Nicola Sturgeon to sign the Commitment Glasgow East candidate John Mason said:

Voters, rightly, expect more from their politicians.  The public has the right to expect high standards of honesty, openness and transparency which is exactly what theyll get with strong local and national champions from the SNP.

Metropolitan politicians have repeatedly failed Scotland and failed their constituents.  From offices in their front rooms instead of on the high streets, to living in London and commuting to the constituency when it should be the other in.

The public deserve politicians who will work for them, not work for
themselves and who will protect public services, not their own interests.

Depute Leader Nicola Sturgeon added:

"This is about MPs doing their job properly.  Too often in the past many MPs have failed to live up to their constituents expectations.

John Mason has set the standard for all new MPs and SNP MPs are
consistently among the hardest working in the Parliament.

Where the Westminster machine has let Scotland down, SNP MPs have fought for Scotlands people.  Where others have lived it up at the taxpayers expense SNP MPs will work for the taxpayer.

"John has put his community and his constituents first.

SNP MPs will always open local offices, hold regular surgeries and be accessible to their constituents.  That is at the heart of our commitment to Scotlands communities.

At this election instead of electing a typical Westminster politician
communities across Scotland can elect champions, like John Mason, who will put the people first, who will be on their side and who will champion their interests."

A clip of John Mason  setting out the standards for MPs should follow is at: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GcWhZd30k6Q
Filed under:

    Elections
    Westminster


