Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040042.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Law Enforcement Gone Mad: Labour Regime Demands that Workers Must Prove They Are Not Paedophiles
March 21, 2010

npcThe legal concept of innocent until proven guilty has been turned on its head with a new Labour plan to force 9 million British workers to prove that they are  not paedophiles before being allowed anywhere near children.

Details of this new scheme to persecute and tax more than one in five of the adult population have been released by the Independent Safeguarding Authority (ISA)  a cynical misnomer as this is another government quango paid for by the British taxpayer.

The proposed plan will require workers from such diverse occupations as builders, driving instructors and opera singers to pass a vetting procedure and become licenced and registered with the state, in case their work brings them into contact with children.

Adding further controversy, the ISA can bar any applicant without giving a reason. It can also make a decision to bar a person based on reports from third parties thus depriving an innocent applicant of their livelihood based on lies and malicious gossip, tactics used to marginalise innocent citizens in totalitarian states.

The new plan will not replace the current Criminal Records Bureau (CRB) checks meaning that some workers will be required to be investigated by two government organisations  and pay twice to prove their innocence of any paedophile crime.

With this corrupt Labour governments chaotic immigration policies and widespread availability of false documentation to criminals, this 200 million scheme will do nothing to prevent foreign paedophiles from working with children, nor will it regulate the army of cash-in-hand benefit claimants working on the side for cowboy companies.

Nor will it prevent the majority of child abuse cases which are committed by the childs parents or the cases caused through official incompetence.

What this plan will achieve is to drive volunteers away from helping with any child related activity such as sports, to be replaced by workers employed by the state, which, with the additional employees needed to administer the scheme, will increase the numbers of state dependent voters who traditionally favour Labour.

This scheme is another Labour government tax on honest British workers, a tax that will be passed on to British consumers through increased prices at a time when the British people are struggling to survive financially.

The real answer to crime is tough sentencing for convicted criminals, not criminalising law-abiding citizens.

Posted in National News | Comments (117)

