Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228010011.txt

Party Manifesto: LibDem (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

your say. LiberalDemocrats are the onlyparty that believes in radicalpolitical reform to reinventthe way our country is runand put power back whereit belongs: into the handsof people.

fair and local politics, protecting your freedom
Liberal Democrats are the only party which believes in radical political reformto reinvent the way our country is run and put power back where it belongs:into the hands of people. We want to see a fair and open political system,with power devolved to all the nations, communities, neighbourhoods andpeoples of Britain.As the expenses scandal showed, the political system is rotten. Hundreds ofMPs have safe seats where they can ignore their constituents. Party fundingrules mean big donors have huge influence. Power has been concentratedin Westminster and Whitehall by a succession of governments. And Britain’shard-won civil liberties have been eaten away.Liberal Democrats will do things differently, because we believe that powershould be in the hands of people, not politicians. We will give people a realsay in who governs the country by introducing fair votes. We will stopbig donations and give people the power to sack corrupt MPs. We willincrease the powers of the Welsh Assembly and Scottish Parliament. Wewill cut back central government and all the stifling targets that it sets andmake sure local taxes are spent locally. And we will introduce a FreedomBill to restore the civil liberties that are so precious to the British character.fairer politicsLiberal Democrats will transform politics. We want people to be empowered,knowing the chance to change things in their neighbourhood or in the countryas a whole is in their hands.Liberal Democrats will:• Change politics and abolish safe seats by introducing a fair, more
proportional voting system for MPs. Our preferred Single TransferableVote system gives people the choice between candidates as well asparties. Under the new system, we will be able to reduce the numberof MPs by 150.• Give the right to vote from age 16.• Introduce fi xed-term parliaments to ensure that the Prime Minister ofthe day cannot change the date of an election to suit themselves.• Strengthen the House of Commons to increase accountability. Wewill increase Parliamentary scrutiny of the budget and of governmentappointments and give Parliament control over its own agenda so thatall bills leaving the Commons have been fully debated.• Replace the House of Lords with a fully-elected second chamberwith considerably fewer members than the current House.• Get better politics for less. Liberal Democrats would save this countrynearly £2 billion by reforms that cut back waste in central governmentand the Houses of Parliament.• Introduce a written constitution. We would give people the power todetermine this constitution in a citizens’ convention, subject to fi nalapproval in a referendum.• Strengthen the Data Protection Act and the Offi ce of the InformationCommissioner, extending Freedom of Information legislation to privatecompanies delivering monopoly public services such as Network Rail.cleaner politicsThere has been much talk of political reform from the other two parties, butnothing has happened. They have worked together to block reform, evenvoting against a proposal to give people the right to sack corrupt MPs.Dependent on money from the unions and big business, they have blockedchanges to party funding. And determined to protect the secrecy of theHouse of Commons, they had to be pushed into revealing the details of MPs’expenses in the fi rst place. Only Liberal Democrats are able to break openthis system and deliver real change.We will:• Give you the right to sack MPs who have broken the rules. We wouldintroduce a recall system so that constituents could force a by-electionfor any MP found responsible for serious wrongdoing. We arecampaigning for this right of recall to be introduced to the EuropeanParliament too.• Get big money out of politics by capping donations at £10,000 andlimiting spending throughout the electoral cycle.• Require all MPs, Lords and parliamentary candidates to be resident,ordinarily resident and domiciled in Britain for tax.• Curb the improper influence of lobbyists by introducing a statutoryregister of lobbyists, changing the Ministerial Code so that ministersand officials are forbidden from meeting MPs on issues where theMP is paid to lobby, requiring companies to declare how much theyspend on lobbying in their annual reports, and introducing a statutoryregister of interests for parliamentary candidates based on the currentRegister of Members’ Interests.

more power for local people
Liberal Democrats believe local people know best about how things shouldbe done in their area. We will radically decentralise politics so that localpeople have the powers and the funding to deliver what they want for theircommunities.Liberal Democrats will:• Make local government more accountable and responsive to localpeople by introducing fair votes for local elections in England.• Reform local taxation. The Council Tax is an unfair tax. LiberalDemocrats believe that it should be scrapped and replaced with a fairlocal tax, based on people’s ability to pay. It is necessary to pilot LocalIncome Tax to resolve any practical issues of implementation beforeit can be rolled out nationally, so we would invite councils to putthemselves forward to be involved in the piloting phase in the secondyear of a Parliament.• Return business rates to councils and base them on site values, as afirst step towards the radical decentralisation of taxation and spendingpowers to local people.• Review local government finance completely as part of these taxchanges, including reviewing the unfair Housing Revenue Accountsystem and the mainstreaming of central grants.• Give people a say in policing and the NHS with elected policeauthorities and health boards.• Scrap nearly £1 billion of central government inspection regimes onlocal councils.
• Scrap the Government Offices for the Regions and regional ministers.• Implement the Sustainable Communities Act Amendment Bill, whichgives local communities the right to propose actions in their area toimprove sustainability.a federal BritainLiberal Democrats have always led arguments for the decentralisation ofpolitical power within a federal Britain. While we welcome the progress thathas been made, the job is still far from finished.Liberal Democrats will:• Implement the recommendations of the Calman Commission to givesignificant new powers and responsibilities to the Scottish Parliament.• Give the National Assembly primary legislative powers so that itbecomes a true Welsh Parliament. We also support passing on agreater number of responsibilities to the National Assembly.• Replace the current Barnett formula for allocating funding to theScottish, Welsh and Northern Irish governments with a new needs-basedformula, to be agreed by a Finance Commission of the Nations.• Address the status of England within a federal Britain, through theConstitutional Convention set up to draft a written constitution for theUK as a whole.Tensions between Labour and the SNP have undermined the devolvedsettlement in Scotland. This has led to unjustified and unnecessary financialdisputes which have locked up money due to Scotland. We will restore.
revenue to Scotland from the reserves of Registers of Scotland andfrom Scottish money paid to OFGEM under the Fossil Fuel Levy as one-offpayments in the 2011 budget and give control of future revenues tothe Scottish Government. This will likely lead to an increase in revenuefor Scotland of around £250 million in 2011–12.restoring your freedomsLiberal Democrats believe it is an individual’s right to live their lives as theysee fi t, without discrimination, with personal privacy, and with equal rightsbefore the law.Decades of Labour and Conservative rule have overthrown some of the basicprinciples of British justice and turned Britain into a surveillance state.Liberal Democrats will protect and restore your freedoms. We will:• Introduce a Freedom Bill. We will regulate CCTV, stop councils fromspying on people, stop unfair extradition to the US, defend trial byjury, and stop children being fingerprinted at school without theirparents’ permission.• Restore the right to protest by reforming the Public Order Act tosafeguard non-violent protest even if it offends; and restrict the scopeof injunctions issued by vested interests.• Protect free speech, investigative journalism and academic peer-reviewedpublishing through reform of the English and Welsh libellaws – including by requiring corporations to show damage andprove malice or recklessness, and by providing a robust responsiblejournalism defence.
• Scrap intrusive Identity Cards and have more police instead, and alsoscrap plans for expensive, unnecessary new passports with additionalbiometric data.• Halt the increase in unnecessary new offences with the creation of a‘stop unit’ in the Cabinet Office. Every department in Whitehall wouldhave to convince this unit of the need for a new offence.• End plans to store your email and internet records without goodcause.• Remove innocent people from the police DNA database and stopstoring DNA from innocent people and children in the future, too.• Ensure that everyone has the same protections under the law byprotecting the Human Rights Act.• Scrap the intrusive ContactPoint database which is intended to holdthe details of every child in England.We believe that the best way to combat terrorism is to prosecuteterrorists, not give away hard-won British freedoms. That is why we will:• Reach out to the communities most at risk of radicalisation to improvethe relationships between them and the police and increase the fl owof intelligence.• Scrap control orders, which can use secret evidence to place peopleunder house arrest.
• Reduce the maximum period of pre-charge detention to 14 days.• Make it easier to prosecute and convict terrorists by allowingintercept evidence in court and by making greater use of post-chargequestioning.

