Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228030002.txt

Party Manifesto: SNP (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

This election is about ensuring a strong team of Scottish MPs in theHouse of Commons - a team of SNP MPs. Local champions, who will bethere working hard for you, your community and Scotland.
The London parties all offer the same thing - the wrong priorities for ournation. They aren’t talking about the issues that matter most to people oroffering the solutions and ideas that will improve life here in Scotland.For them the needs of our families, neighbours and communities are asecond thought. Scotland deserves better.The SNP cares about Scottish success. We are Scotland’s Party and here athome, and in the parliament in London we offer Scotland a stronger voice.When the SNP is successful, London listens.So at this election, with your help, we can secure big gains for the peopleof Scotland. Our plans would mean 60,000 new green jobs by 2020; afair deal for pensioners with pensions rising in line with earnings and aguarantee to protect free personal care and concessionary travel; anda new phase of capital acceleration so we can create almost 5,000 newjobs this year. We will press for the scrapping of Trident nuclear missilesand a halt to their replacement, demand a fair fuel regulator to protectmotorists from soaring fuel prices and work to make sure Scotland is partof the first phase of the UK high speed rail network.and we can make sure Scotland’s communities are heard. That isimportant on polling day, and even more important once the votes arecounted and decisions are being taken at Westminster. Scotland’s voicemust be heard, because if it isn’t, the people of Scotland will lose out.as a party and as Scotland’s government, our focus is first and foremoston winning the best deal for Scotland. We are ambitious for you andyour family and confident in Scotland’s ability to succeed, now and withindependence. We are focused more than ever on building the stronger,more successful nation we know Scotland can be. This manifesto sets outmany of the steps we can take here in Scotland, and with hard-workingScottish MPs in the House of Commons, to protect what really matters.We are working hard for economic recovery and new jobs andopportunities for families and communities. However the London parties’proposed cuts pose a threat to this recovery. That is why Scotland needschampions and why our local communities need champions too. at thiselection, more votes means more Nats, and more Nats means less cuts.Local services and recovery can and must be protected.These are challenging times, and as Scotland’s Government and Scotland’sParty in the House of Commons, we are determined to do all we can tomake our nation healthier, safer, fairer, greener, smarter and wealthier.These elections are about giving you and the people of Scotland thestrongest possible voice in the decisions that will be taken in London. Itis about choosing the strongest local representation. It is about electinglocal champions - MPs who will stand up for the people they represent.Our MPs will speak up for Scottish values and argue to scrap the £5billion ID card project, the £100 billion replacement for Trident, the £100million House of Lords and the near £10 million Scotland Office so wecan instead protect the vital public services we all rely on and make theinvestment we need for economic recovery. Our MPs will work to ensurethat Scots get the opportunity to be consulted on our own constitutionalfuture. Incredibly, the Labour Party now propose an early referendum onthe alternative Vote and the House of Lords while they seek to block theScottish Parliament holding a referendum on Independence.Running through this manifesto is the SNP vision of a new future forScotland, independent, socially just and economically secure. Thereal alternative to the discredited Westminster system is a fresh,independent future for our nation.elections are important. Too often it is the hard-working people andfamilies who are left out and forgotten. So if you care about Scotland andyour community, don’t just vote for a politician, elect a local champion.Alex Salmond SNP Leader
