Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228070013.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Higher and Further Education

The above principles apply, by and large, to higher education. Investment in higher education is essential to the health of the economy, not only in the creation of a well-trained workforce equipped with modern skills, but also in promoting study for its own sake, based on objective inquiry and freedom of thought.

But as with schools, there has been an increase in centralised bureaucratic interference in the running of our colleges and universities. As in so many spheres, the government has become more involved in inspection, by means of centralised teaching quality assessments and the introduction of crass new management structures. The UKIP believes that these measures are counterproductive. Decisions about teaching methods, course structures and quality should as far as possible be left to the institutions concerned. The best way to ensure standards is to leave institutions free to compete in offering courses that students and employers find valuable.

The UKIP also believes that advanced education in all its forms should be widely available. In this regard we recognise that many mature men and women want to learn new skills in order to increase their employment options. We therefore support a further education system that responds to a range of needs and offers a wide variety of courses and opportunities. We shall promote community colleges and, as with schools, we shall raise the status of technical education to that of academic study.

With regard to financing, we support those universities that seek additional financing from sources other than government, and shall explore various mechanisms for independent funding, such as transferable loans which students repay directly to the academic institutions of their choice. The UKIP will also encourage the setting up of private universities and colleges, with generous provision for scholarships for bright students from less advantaged backgrounds.

The UKIP is alarmed that several hundred university positions in Britain are funded or supported by the EU, with the provision that the individuals engage themselves in teaching or research into European integration. This will cease when Britain leaves the EU. Another advantage of leaving the EU will be that it ends the discriminatory practice in which a student from the EU pays much lower fees than one from the Commonwealth and other non-EU countries. Students from all overseas countries play a valuable role in fostering friendship and promoting international co-operation.

Higher education in all its forms must remain available to all, regardless of background and income. And the UKIP believes that the way to maintain standards and do justice to students is to leave the various universities and colleges free to offer courses that offer the best value, measured in terms of future job prospects and the advancement of knowledge.

