Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228020002.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

Foreword from Gordon BrownThis General Election is fought as our troopsare bravely fighting to defend the safety of theBritish people and the security of the world inAfghanistan. They bring great pride and creditto our country: we honour and will alwayssupport them.At the same time the world has been rocked by thefirst great crisis of the new global economic age.In Britain, the political crisis caused by expenseshas undermined the bond of trust between thepeople and the politicians elected to serve them.So this cannot, and will not, be a ‘business asusual’ election or Manifesto. In this Manifesto weset out plans to address the main future challengeswe face in our economy, our society and ourpolitics. We will rebuild the economy to securethe recovery and invest in future growth and jobs.We will renew our society to further strengthenthe communities that bind our country together.And we will restore trust in politics with greatertransparency and accountability in a systembattered by the expenses scandal.This programme for further national renewalmeets the big challenges of the age. OurManifesto is ambitious but affordable, bold butrealistic, and learns from the lessons we take fromour experience to date. Over the next ten years wewill confront major challenges - intensive globalcompetition, climate change, an ageing society,and bringing stability to Afghanistan. This is amoment for good judgement and serious purposeto meet the challenges ahead.Our aim is a modern, progressive Britain based onfairness, respect, decency and openness.This is a Manifesto about the greater progressivechange we need because of the tougher times weare living through. There are no big new spendingcommitments, but there is a determination forevery penny to be used wisely, and, as presentplans make clear, to give the maximum protectionto frontline public services.This is a moment to show greater boldness inresponse to what Britain has gone through andthe toll it has taken. We reject a ‘business as usual’mentality because we have to re-build and rebalancethe economy, as well as renew our societyand politics. Reform cannot stand still – not leastbecause we need to get more value and deliveryfrom public services in a period of public spendingconstraint. Our Manifesto charts an optimisticcourse in tougher economic times. It builds on andtakes forward the reforms we have undertakensince 1997.I love Britain and want the very best for ourcountry. This Manifesto is my pledge of a futurefair for all.Gordon BrownPrime Minister

