Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228070018.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Crime

The UKIP sees connections between rising crime - against both people and property - and economic imbalance, family breakdown, poverty in the midst of plenty and the lack of education in responsible citizenship. We believe in addressing all these issues because job opportunities and social inclusion are the best ways to reduce anti-social behaviour. We also believe that education plays a crucial role in socialising young people. This is why we aim for an education system that meets the needs of all pupils, gives them good role models and sets an example of social responsibility.

At the same time, the UKIP regards the protection of citizens from crime as one of the principal duties of government. Crime is socially unjust - most of the victims are not the rich, but the less well off. A disproportionate number belong to ethnic minorities. The UKIP supports deterrent sentences, but we do not see the solution simply in terms of building more prisons and locking more people up. Not all custodial sentences have to involve prison. It has been shown that strong rehabilitative regimes, which involve vocational or outdoor skills, and reparations to victims, have more success in preventing young offenders in particular from re-offending. The UKIP also supports non-custodial sentences where possible, especially for 'victimless' crimes and non-violent offences. Too many are sent to jail for non-violent crimes better dealt with within the community, and too many young men are sent to adult prisons, where their needs cannot be met.

For some heinous offences, we reinforce that 'life means life'. Prisoners should not be offered early release if they still pose a danger to others - such leniency brings the law into disrepute, as evidenced by 'anti-paedophile' protests, for instance. The UKIP opposes legislation which, in certain types of offence, gives anonymity to the accuser but not the accused. This procedure contravenes natural justice, as does the rule that prisoners have to admit their guilt to be considered for parole.

The UKIP values the police both for their crime-fighting tasks and for their wider role in holding communities together. Unlike the police in many EU countries, ours are primarily public servants, and they deserve our respect for the service they provide. However we believe that this ethos of service has become tarnished in recent years by too much bureaucratic procedure, political correctness, and centralised control. Police services should be answerable to and reflect the interests of the communities they serve, and the UKIP believes that a system of County Constabularies is the best framework. We are opposed to proposals for a national Police force.

The UKIP is resolutely opposed to racism wherever it occurs. However, some of the rhetorical gestures of 'anti-racism' and 'diversity training', supposedly designed to address alleged racism in the police forces, have proved to be less than productive. A better approach is to put more police on the beat, especially in areas of high crime and social deprivation, and we support the Police Federation's call for a Royal Commission on the role and resourcing of the Police force. Part of the Independence Dividend of funds that become available on Britain's departure from the EU will be used to recruit more full-time and special constables, with the aim of reconnecting police with local communities. This will enable 'high visibility policing' with an emphasis on criminals, not motorists.

