Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040182.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


The Great Hunt Continues for the Tory Partys True Immigration Policy
April 28, 2010

The Conservative Party manifesto is 131 pages long and contains 46,500 words but has less than one page dealing with immigration, a whole 376 words  and even most of that deals with student visas.

The complete lack of Tory immigration policy guidelines is so blatant that it has even been picked up on by the slavishly pro-Tory press, with the party being condemned by broadsheets and tabloids alike.

In the latest example, David Cameron was interviewed by the Daily Star. The very first question was on immigration.

The pro-Tory newspaper pointedly asked Mr Cameron, You want to introduce an annual cap on migrants, but you wont give us a total. How can you convince voters your plan for tougher border controls will have any real impact?

The typically vague reply from Mr Cameron was so transparent that it is amazing that the paper even bothered to print it: People will judge us on our results. If net immigration in the UK is 150,000 sometimes 200,000 a year, we have said it should be tens of thousands. Thats a very significant cut.

In essence this means that the Tories are for balanced migration plus some tens of thousands more.

The balanced migration scam works like this: if 500,000 people leave Britain in a year (as is the current indigenous British emigration rate), then 500,000 immigrants should be allowed in, creating a balanced population.

The obvious and idiotic flaw in this scheme is that current legal Third World immigration rates into Britain are already of the order of 600,000 per year.

In other words, Mr Camerons proposal is identical to the current situation and the crisis which it is causing.

In addition, Third World immigrants have a much higher birth rate, and importing half a million or more per year causes an exponential population growth surge which will utterly negate the balanced population theory.

The idiocy does not stop there: according to the Tory manifesto, immigration has enriched our nation over the years and has made a real difference to our economic growth.

In fact, as all social indicators reveal, immigration has cost Britain dearly, in real financial terms and in social disruption.

Official estimates are that immigration costs the British taxpayer some 13 billion per year and has caused terrorism, an increase in crime, housing shortages, the invasion of our greenbelt and a host of other social problems.

The conspiracy of silence by the Tories, Labour and Liberal Democrats on the crisis of immigration is one of the primary reasons for the growth of the British National Party.

By way of contrast to the other parties, the BNP has a detailed section on immigration in its manifesto which spells out the problem and details the answer. The BNP manifestos immigration policy highlights are:

 At current immigration and birth rates, indigenous British people are set to become a minority well within 50 years. This will result in the extinction of the British people, culture, heritage and identity.

 The BNP will take all steps necessary to halt and reverse this process. These steps will include a halt to all further immigration, the deportation of all illegal immigrants, a halt to the asylum swindle and the promotion of the already existing voluntary repatriation scheme.

 The BNP recognises the right of legally settled and law-abiding minorities to remain in the UK and enjoy the full protection of the law, on the understanding that the indigenous population of Britain has the right to remain the majority population of our nation.

 The BNP will deport all foreigners convicted of crimes in Britain, regardless of their immigration status.

 The BNP will review all citizenship grants awarded since Labour entered government in 1997, based on that partys admission that they orchestrated mass immigration to change forcibly Britains demographics and to gerrymander elections.

 The BNP will repeal the Race Relations Act and all other far leftist social engineering projects, such as the Equalities and Human Rights Commission aimed at enforcing multiculturalism.

 The BNP will regain sovereign control of our borders by increasing funding to the UK Border Agency.

Posted in National News | Comments (50)

