Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228060042.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Revitalising local government

People feel at home in their local communities, be they counties, towns, villages or parishes.

But real communities are being weakened by too much government from Whitehall, and by the imposition of artificial new layers of government with which people don't identify. The next Conservative Government will revolutionise the attitude of central government to local government.

The best councils offer excellent value for money and serve their communities well. Conservatives believe that councils that have such a track record of success should be trusted with more power. They will be able to become 'free councils'. We will devolve financial and administrative power from central government to them, and establish a stronger link between the money they raise and the money they spend.

We believe that local citizens should decide how much their council will spend. The next Conservative Government will not use its powers to cap local council budgets.

We will abolish many of the national targets and plans that local councils are forced to follow by Whitehall.

Alongside this policy of granting greater freedom to the best councils must come some protection from abuses by the worst. So we will look at ways in which local councils proposing increases in their budgets significantly above the rate of inflation can be obliged to hold a local referendum on the increase in the Council Tax which this would entail. We will also retain Section 28 of the Local Government Act.

Labour have introduced a new tier of regional bureaucracy. But almost no-one identifies with the arbitrary regions into which the country has been carved up - they owe nothing to where people feel they actually belong.

We will abolish the Regional Development Agencies that the Government has introduced and scrap Labour's plans for new Regional Assemblies. We will give responsibility for enterprise and development back to county councils, and to unitary authorities where appropriate, and save the £70 million a year that the RDAs are spending in administration.

