Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228070023.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Marketing and Rural Development

The UKIP supports the development of farmers' markets, with buildings and public car parking provided by local authorities. There should also be special support for farming co-operatives. To ensure fair competition between farmer's retail enterprises, small shops and supermarkets, we believe that local taxation should be equalised, with uniform business rate levied on shelf space used for sales, rather than on trading area.

The UKIP will support new retail development if there are benefits to town centre renewal. However, we favour a more liberal approach to planning and regulation of farming enterprises. Farms should be free from unnecessary restrictions which limit diversification. They should be allowed to set up farm shops selling a wide range of goods instead of being limited to what is produced on the farm. We would also like to see farmers permitted to diversify more easily into non-agricultural enterprises, where their environmental impact is minimal or well-contained.

The UKIP deplores the attack on country sports by illiberal politicians and pressure groups, and will uphold the traditional liberties of country people whilst treating this as a matter of personal conscience. We support access to the countryside for walkers and the preservation of traditional rights of way. However we believe that an unrestricted 'right to roam' is ecologically damaging and imposes intolerable stresses on small farmers, especially in less favoured areas. Accordingly, we shall amend the Countryside and Rights of Way Act to take account of local conditions.

Freedom from the dead hand of the EU will not solve the whole of agriculture's problems. It is the start of a wider cultural change, in which rural policy is brought from the fringes to the centre of government. To enable this process to take place, the current Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries should be replaced by a Department of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, which would act as a champion for rural communities.

