Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030149.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

Salmond slams London parties' cuts agenda
Wed, 28/04/2010 - 10:51

SNP Leader Alex Salmond today (Thursday), joined SNP candidates for
Falkirk, John McNally and Linlithgow and Falkirk East, Tam Smith on a
visit to the HEROtsc call centre in Larbert.

The call centre which employs 300 people was at threat of closure in
April 2009 but HEROtsc, with SNP Government support, secured a new
contract with SKY enabling the centre to continue its operations in
Falkirk.

But Mr Salmond warned that success stories like HEROstc are threatened
by the hidden and shared cuts agenda of the London politicians,
underlined by yesterdays Institute of Fiscal Studies (IFS) report which
criticised Labour, the Tories and the LibDems for failing to come clean
on the scale of their proposed cuts.

Mr Salmond said:

HEROtsc is a fantastic Scottish success
story  and their continuing success is testament to the skill and
dedication of the workforce. Throughout the downturn, the SNP Government
has done everything it could to support jobs in Scotland and HEROtsc is
testament to that.

But economic recovery is threatened by all the London politicians
and their attempts to hide their shared cuts agenda.

The
London-based politicians think they can get away with concealing the
extent of their cuts agenda from the electorate in this election,.
However the information is now out in the public domain  thanks to the
SNP Government's report and the IFS study  and Labour, the Tories and
LibDems must now come clean.

On the basis of Treasury growth forecasts, UK cuts over the next 12
years will be 250 billion.  And on the basis of slower UK growth 
which the latest figures indicate is the case  we are talking about
cuts of some 370 billion over the 15 years it will take until spending
reaches the 2009/10 levels in real terms.

The London parties are merely debating the tip of the iceberg on
television  they are desperate to hide the scale of UK cuts from the
people before 6 May.  No wonder they conspired like typical machine
politicians to keep the SNP and Plaid Cymru off the airwaves.

Their position is now untenable, and Labour, the Tories and the
LibDems must all be challenged on they will respond, and what exactly
they are proposing for our key public services.

Mr Salmond
added:

The key issue over the next nine days is ensuring that
political choices and priorities are changed from the intentions of the
London politicians, to ensure that the cuts fall on the things that the
people of Scotland neither need nor want  Trident, ID cards, and a
nuclear waste dump  and that our public services are protected.

The London politicians  Tweedledee, Tweedledum and TweedleDem 
are all tied into cuts of this scale.  And the Tories would even impose
an extra Cameron cut on Scotland, by forcing through a worse funding
formula without the consent of the Scottish Government or people 
against the Treasurys own rules.

That is why more nats means less cuts, because only the SNP stand
for dumping wasteful spending on Westminster vanity projects,
protecting our great public services, and charting a course to Scottish
prosperity.

SNP candidate for Falkirk John McNally added:

SNP MPs at
Westminster will work to bring more control over employment policy back
to the Scottish Parliament so we can bring together job centres and
skills agencies to make sure local communities get coordinated support.

This simple move would enhance the existing partnership
arrangements, reduce bureaucracy and overlap and mean more time and
resources are available to support people into work.

ENDS

Notes:

1.
Ongoing news coverage about how the London politicians are coming under
pressure to stop collectively hiding their cuts agenda can be read here.

2.
The SNP Government has already published a report last Thursday showing
that it will take a period of sustained adjustment lasting up to 12 to
15 years before 2009/10 levels of expenditure are reached once again.
Over this period, Scottish expenditure could cumulatively forego
between 25 and 35 billion in real terms compared to a situation
whereby the 2009/10 peak level of expenditure remained unchanged.  The
upper end of this scale would be more likely if the UK economic recovery
were to be slower than forecast in Budget 2010.

The UK equivalent cuts figures would be between 250 billion on
Treasury forecasts and 370 billion on the basis of slower growth.

3.
HEROtsc began as a seven-person start-up business in Bute in the mid
90s and is now one of the UKs biggest contact centre companies with
2280 employees over eight UK sites including Scottish operations in
Falkirk, Aviemore, Greenock, Erskine, Dunoon, Rothesay and Kilmarnock
Filed under:

    Elections
    SNP


