Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060024.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------


change society | raise standards in schools

Raise standards in schools
We will improve standards for all pupils and close the attainment gap between the richest andpoorest. We will enhance the prestige and quality of the teaching profession, and give heads andteachers tough new powers of discipline. We will restore rigour to the curriculum and exam systemand give every parent access to a good school.

Improving our school system is the mostimportant thing we can do to make opportunitymore equal and address our declining socialmobility. But Britain is slipping down the worldleague tables in reading, Maths and Science,and violence in the classroom is a seriousproblem. We are falling behind other countries,and there is a growing gap between the richestand the poorest. We can’t go on like this, for thesake of the next generations.A Conservative government will give manymore children access to the kind of educationthat is currently only available to the well-off:safe classrooms, talented and specialist teachers,access to the best curriculum and exams, andsmaller schools with smaller class sizes withteachers who know the children’s names.Better teachers and tougherdisciplineThe single most important thing for a goodeducation is for every child to have access toa good teacher. We will take steps to enhancethe status of the teaching profession and ensureit attracts the best people. Schools – especially
struggling ones – must be able to attract thebest teachers and subject specialists, so we willgive all head teachers the power to pay goodteachers more.We will expand Teach First and introducetwo new programmes – Teach Now, forpeople looking to change career, and Troopsto Teachers, for ex-service personnel – to getexperienced, high-quality people into theprofession.We will make it easier for teachers to deal withviolent incidents and remove disruptive pupilsor items from the classroom. We believe headsare best placed to improve behaviour, whichis why we will stop them being overruled bybureaucrats on exclusions.To raise the status of teaching and toughenschool discipline further, we will:• raise the entry requirement for taxpayerfundedprimary school teacher training;• expect new graduates to have at least a2:2 in their degree in order to qualify forstate-funded training;
• pay the student loan repayments for topMaths and Science graduates for as long asthey remain teachers, by redirecting some ofthe current teacher training budget;• give teachers the strongest possibleprotection from false accusations; and,• reinforce powers of discipline bystrengthening home-school behaviourcontracts.A rigorous curriculum andexam systemEvery child who is capable of reading shouldbe doing so after two years in primary school.To make this happen, we will promote theteaching of systematic synthetic phonics andensure that teachers are properly trained toteach using this method. To provide parentswith the reassurance they need that their childis making progress, we will establish a simplereading test at the age of six.We will reform the National Curriculum so thatit is more challenging and based on evidenceabout what knowledge can be mastered bychildren at different ages. We will ensure thatthe primary curriculum is organised aroundsubjects like Maths, Science and History.We will encourage setting so those who arestruggling get extra help and the most able arestretched.Under Labour, the exam system has becomedevalued. We will ensure that our exam systemis measured against the most rigorous systemsin the world. We will keep Key Stage 2 testsand league tables. We will reform them tomake them more rigorous. We will make otherexams more robust by giving universitiesand academics more say over their form andcontent. We want to develop proper vocationaland technical education that engages youngpeople and meets the needs of modern business.So we will establish Technical Academiesacross England, starting in at least twelve cities.People expect to be able to make choicesabout the services they use, based on robustinformation about the quality on offer. So aConservative government will reform schoolleague tables so that schools can demonstratethey are stretching the most able and raising theattainment of the less able.To improve school standards further, we will:• allow all state schools the freedom to offerthe same high quality international examsthat private schools offer – including givingevery pupil the chance to study separatesciences at GCSE;• create 20,000 additional youngapprenticeships;• allow schools and colleges to offerworkplace training;
