Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228060058.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

THE VOLUNTARY SECTOR

Charities and voluntary groups play a vital role in our national life. Britain is rich in its citizens' willingness to give time, effort and money to helping others. We have a great tradition of voluntary work at home and overseas. There are now about 350,000 voluntary groups in Britain - and personal donations to charities now amount to some £5,000 million a year.

We have done much to boost charitable giving.

    Under the Payroll Giving Scheme, employees can now contribute up to £50 a month tax-free.
    Gifts and bequests have been exempted from Inheritance Tax.
    The Gift Aid scheme allows charities to claim tax relief on one-off gifts of more than £400 - a change just announced in the Budget.
    The maximum limit on single charitable gifts qualifying for Income and Corporation Tax relief has been abolished. 

The new Charities legislation will ensure that charities are better managed and properly regulated. We believe this will enhance public confidence in charities and further boost charitable giving.

The Government gives some £2,500 million a year to support the activities of the voluntary sector (including housing associations). Industry has been generous with its sponsorship and with technical support. But money is not the only contribution that government and business can make. Businesses have become much more practically involved in work in the community And government could do more to encourage new forms of volunteering, to encourage the most effective use of the money it gives, and to bring together voluntary effort at the local and national level.

    We will continue to support the work of the voluntary sector and promote volunteering.
    We will work with voluntary agencies to develop, over the life of the next Parliament, a national bank of information on opportunities for volunteering.
    We will encourage efforts to improve the co-ordination and promote the growth of local volunteer support, building on the success of Neighbourhood Watch to develop a network of voluntary help in local communities. 

