Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_060053.txt

Press Release from Party: Con

News story
David Cameron criticises Labour's negativity
Tuesday, April 13 2010
David Cameron

David Cameron has criticised Labour's negative approach to campaigning and governing.

In answering a question after the launch of the Conservative manifesto, Cameron criticised Labour for having "nothing positive to say".

"Theyre going to spend this entire election trying to frighten people", he said, referencing Labour's misinformation about Sure Start, winter fuel payments, and cancer treatment.

"Thats what a government does when its got nothing left to give, nothing left to offer, its profoundly depressing", he added.

In contrast, Cameron said the British people are crying out to hear something positive that will impact their lives. "People are not yet that engaged with this election, people are very switched off from this election", he said.

"But they are longing to hear something positive, something concrete, something specific, something that will actually make a difference to their lives. And thats what this document is all about; it is unremittingly positive, optimistic and upbeat about what we can all achieve if we come together as a country."

He went on to describe the positive vision at the heart of the Conservative manifesto.

"I think the politicians have been treating the public like mugs for about 40 years; pretending that we, the politicians, have all the answers. 'Just give us some power, well pass another Queens speech, well pass a few more laws, well issue some regulations, well spend a bit more money, and it will all get better'. And its a lie, it doesnt work like that."

He said things only really change if you "bring people with you and if they play their part".

"Does anyone think were going to crack crime by one more Criminal Justice Bill or one more police officer funded? Were only going to do it when the country comes together; when shopkeepers stop selling alcohol to kids; when we bring up our children properly; when we unleash social enterprises and charities to improve our communities."

Concluding his answer, he said: "So its a very optimistic, hopeful, forward-looking message and I dont think Labour have got a chance of matching it. Glad I got that off my chest".
Go to news

    Subscribe
    Print



