Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060006.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

Change the economy | Benchmarks for Britain

Benchmarks for Britain

For the first time, the British people will have eight clear and transparent benchmarks againstwhich they can judge the economic success or failure of the next government. We will beaccountable and open. These are the eight Benchmarks for Britain. Achieving them over the nextParliament will mean we have put Britain back on its feet and are building a new British economicmodel, very different from the debt-driven economy of recent years.
1. Ensure macroeconomic stability: We will safeguard Britain’s credit rating with a credible planto eliminate the bulk of the structural deficit over a Parliament. Our fiscal policy will seek tohelp keep interest rates lower for longer. The independent Bank of England will continue totarget 2 per cent Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation, and will use its new role in prudentialsupervision to preserve financial stability.2. Create a more balanced economy: We will create the conditions for higher exports, businessinvestment and saving as a share of Gross Domestic Product (GDP).3. Get Britain working again: We will reduce youth unemployment and reduce the number ofchildren in workless households as part of our strategy for tackling poverty and inequality.4. Encourage enterprise: We will improve Britain’s international rankings for tax competitivenessand business regulation.5. Ensure the whole country shares in rising prosperity: We will increase the private sector’s shareof the economy in all regions of the country, especially outside London and the South East.6. Reform public services to deliver better value for money: We will raise productivity growthin the public sector in order to deliver better schools and a better NHS.7. Create a safer banking system that serves the needs of the economy: We will reform theregulation and structure of the banking system to ensure lower levels of leverage, lessdependence on unstable wholesale funding, and greater availability of credit for small andmedium-sized enterprises (SMEs).8. Build a greener economy: We will reduce UK greenhouse gas emissions and increase ourshare of global markets for low carbon technologies.
