Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030006.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

Scotland Office in 2.6m cash grab
Sun, 14/03/2010 - 13:39
SNP Shadow Scotland Office Spokesperson Angus MacNeil MP has seized on reports that the UK Labour Government has spent 1.4m refurbishing Scottish Secretary Jim Murphys Scotland Office at Dover House, and at the same time given his department a 1.2m cash boost this year, as reported in the Sunday Express. The Scotland Offices own budget estimates reveals that the annual budget of the department will now cost taxpayers 8.7m in 2010 - 1.2 million up on the previous figure.
The total budget of the Scotland Office is now well over double what is was in 1999 when it stood at 3.7m despite a massively reduced remit following devolution. The post of Secretary of State for Scotland was reduced to a part time role after devolution but Prime Minister Gordon Brown restored it to full time in October 2008.
Following these latest revelations, Mr MacNeil said he would table a series of question to establish exactly what the cash had been spent on and if best value had been achieved.
Commenting, Mr MacNeil said:
"Since devolution the remit of the Scotland Office has shrunk but its budget has spiralled out of control. Its time the department was scrapped altogether
Jim Murphys hypocrisy knows no bounds  while he lectures everyone else about belt tightening, he is splashing the cash on his own department which is of neither use nor ornament for the people of Scotland.
Dover House is nothing more than a Ministry for anti-Scottish propaganda and I dont think it will sit well with ordinary Scots that Jim Murphy is making this cash grab while the UK Labour Government are slashing the Scottish Governments budget for investment in vital public services.
These latest revelations come just a few days after Former Scottish Secretary Ian Lang rounded on the post with a devastating attack in the House of Lords. Speaking on Thursday, Lord Lang said that the position of Secretary of State for Scotland no longer has any influence in the cabinet, pads out the cabinet and 'defies credibility.
A full transcript of Lord Lang's comments can be found here: 
http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/ld200910/ldhansrd/text/100311-0008.htm

