Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030028.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

UK Budget should work for Scotland
Sun, 21/03/2010 - 12:54

John Swinney has demanded the Chancellor grasps what could be "his last chance to deliver a budget that benefits Scotland."

The Finance Secretary today called for action on four key demands when the Chancellor gets to his feet on Wednesday:

* A guarantee not to revisit the 2010/11 budget and impose further cuts on Scotland.

* A continued targeted fiscal stimulus for the UK, in line with all G7 countries, through accelerated capital, with a proportionate share of capital spending for Scotland.

* Action on taxes crucial for Scotland, including support for oil and gas and a recognition of the particular effect fuel duty has on rural areas of Scotland.

* Far greater clarity regarding future budgets for Scotland to allow effective planning for the next Scottish Spending Review.

Mr Swinney said:

"With a UK election looming, this could be Alistair Darling's last chance to deliver a budget that benefits Scotland.

"So far he has singularly failed in that task. For our part, the Scottish Government is delivering a comprehensive Economic Recovery Plan to ensure the fragile positive signs we see across the country are sustained and result in a return to economic growth.

"But the current restrictive constitutional arrangements mean it is up to the Chancellor to act on a series of crucial issues.

"First, the Scottish Parliament has agreed a budget for next year which, despite the Westminster Government imposing a cut of half a billion pounds, protects investment in economic recovery and frontline services. Our public services, our businesses, our economy - the whole of Scotland, is reliant on that spending going ahead.

"We need the Chancellor to give a cast iron guarantee there will be no further cuts in Scotland's 2010/11 budget if his government is elected for another term.

"Next, the UK's fiscal stimulus must not be withdrawn in 2010/11. All G7 countries apart from the UK are maintaining their discretionary stimulus package into next year, while the IMF have warned about the dangers of withdrawing such investment packages too early.

"The Prime Minister himself warned that "recklessly and rapidly" withdrawing the government support put in place after the financial collapse of 2008 would "risk driving our economy back into recession".

"Yet the Pre Budget Report completely ignored our appeals for a further stimulus that would allow us to bring forward further capital spending in Scotland - an appeal supported on a cross party basis. After the PBR we were told that was not the final word on accelerated spending - the Budget clearly is the last chance for this Chancellor.

"We now know that the UK Government is expected to borrow slightly less in 2009-10 than forecast at the PBR.  The Chancellor therefore has more room than predicted to boost capital investment in 2010-11.  He should use Wednesday's budget to allow the Scottish Government to bring forward further vital capital spending and build on the vast amount of work already underway to sustain jobs across Scotland.

"The Scottish Government's acceleration of 350 million pounds of capital spending into vital areas such as affordable housing and other infrastructure projects has helped us fight recession, boost spending, and assist the construction sector during tough times.

"There are further key areas where the Chancellor can act specifically for the benefit of Scotland. We must see more positive moves on oil and gas and the North Sea tax regime.

"There must be an acknowledgement of the adverse effect rising fuel duty has on rural areas in particular, with action to cushion the blow of the rising cost of fuel in the many remote and fragile areas of Scotland.

"An oil rich nation like Scotland should be reaping the benefits from our offshore resources not paying among the highest fuel duty in Europe. The Chancellor should introduce a fuel duty regulator to help our hard-pressed hauliers and motorists."

Separately, John Swinney has written to the Chancellor on the budget. For a full copy of the letter and for further information contact:

First Minister correspondence

The First Minister has written (on 18 March) to the Chancellor and Shadow Chancellors (having written previously to the Chancellor and the two main opposition parties on the subject following Parliament's approval of the Budget Bill 2010-11) seeking assurances that they do not plan to re-open and reduce the Scottish Budget 2010-11 following the general election and calling on them to respond positively to calls for maintaining a targeted UK fiscal stimulus to support economic recovery. The First Minister has offered to meet with each of them when he expects to be at Westminster for the Budget Debates the week after next, in order to discuss these issues and their importance to Scotland.

International Comparisons of Discretionary Fiscal Stimulus

Page 36 of the IMF report "The State of Public Finances Cross-Country Fiscal Monitor: November 2009" estimates the size of the discretionary fiscal stimulus measures introduced across the G20.  The results show that the UK is the only G7 member not implementing a discretionary fiscal stimulus in 2010.  The report can be accessed from here.

The UK's Fiscal Stance

The Pre Budget Report 2009 shows that the UK's fiscal stance next year is negative (See Chart 2.5 on page 36).  This implies that the UK Government's discretionary fiscal policy in 2010/11 will act to tighten public spending and taxation, rather than providing a further stimulus.

Outlook for Public Spending

The Institute for Fiscal Studies estimates that total UK Departmental Expenditure Limit budgets could fall by 2.9 per cent a year in real terms between 2011/12 and 2014/15.  The IFS estimate that these cuts would mean that "the four years from 2011-12 would be the tightest for spending on public services since April 1976 to March 1980" Source: IFS (2010) - Green Budget 2010, Pg 183
Filed under:

    budget
    Holyrood


