Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228010033.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

Working for Peace: Northern Ireland

Liberal Democrats reject simplistic solutions for Northern Ireland. We aim to confront the legitimate fears and aspirations of both communities. We accept that both the Unionist and Nationalist traditions are valid and legitimate; that Northern Ireland should remain a part of the UK until the free consent of the majority of its people is given to change; that the Republic of Ireland has a legitimate interest in the future of Northern Ireland; and that a partnership in government which allows both communities to participate is the only practical way in which to make progress.

Together with the Alliance Party, our sister party and the only non-sectarian political party in Northern Ireland, we believe that mutual respect, shared responsibilities and decentralised government are the only basis for a lasting solution to the troubles of Northern Ireland. We will work together to:

    Maintain the Anglo-Irish Agreement, unless and until an improved agreement emerges from cross-party talks to replace it.
    Strengthen the constitutional rights of individual within Northern Ireland. The case for fair voting for all elections, to bring together communities and encourage cooperation, and for a Bill of Rights to protect individuals, is even more pressing in Northern Ireland than it is in the rest of the UK. We will reform the Diplock system, so that three judges preside over non-jury trials, and encourage the use of juries wherever possible. We will introduce a 110-day limit on the length of time for which a prisoner may be held before trial, repeal the broadcasting ban, and provide for the videotaping of police interviews with terrorist suspects.
    Support community-based organisations striving for peace and reconciliation and working to eliminate sectarianism and discrimination in religious life, education, housing and politics.
    Welcome the opportunities offered by the development of the European Community, in terms of economic assistance to Northern Ireland and also because it creates a freamework for progress in the relationship between the UK and the Republic of Ireland.

