Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060012.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

change the economy | Encourage enterprise
Encourage enterprise
We will improve Britain’s international rankings for tax competitiveness and business regulation.

Thirteen years ago, Britain’s tax system wasone of the most competitive in the developedworld. Over the last decade, other countrieshave cut their tax rates while our tax system hasbecome one of the most complex in the world.Our competitiveness rating has fallen, while theburden of regulation and the impact of taxationhave risen. We can only make a sustainableeconomic recovery if we send a clear signal thatBritain is open for business again. That meansstopping Labour’s jobs tax, lowering corporatetax rates, reducing the regulatory burden,and supporting innovation and sustainabledevelopment – changes that will benefitbusinesses of all sizes and boost employment.Cut and simplify business taxesThe Conservative Party believes in lower andsimpler taxation. That is why we will ensurethat by far the largest part of the burden ofdealing with the deficit falls on lower spendingrather than higher taxes. Cutting the deficit isthe most urgent task we need to undertake ifwe are to get the economy moving, but it is notenough. So, initially, we will cut the headlinerate of corporation tax to 25p and the smallcompanies’ rate to 20p, funded by reducingcomplex reliefs and allowances.
Over time, we hope to reduce these ratesfurther. Our ambition is to create the mostcompetitive tax system in the G20 withinfive years.We will restore the tax system’s reputation forsimplicity, stability and predictability. In ourfirst Budget, we will set out a five year roadmap for the direction of corporate tax reform,providing greater certainty and stability tobusinesses. We will create an independentOffice of Tax Simplification to suggest reformsto the tax system.We will take a series of measures to encourageForeign Direct Investment into the UK,including:making the UK a more attractive • location formultinationals by simplifying the complexControlled Foreign Companies rules;• consulting on moving towards a territorialcorporate tax system that only taxes profitsgenerated in the UK; and,• creating an attractive tax environment forintellectual property.

Reduce regulation
Increasing amounts of red tape and complexregulation have eroded Britain’s reputationas a good place to invest, create jobs or starta business. A Conservative government willintroduce regulatory budgets: forcing anygovernment body wanting to introduce a newregulation to reduce regulation elsewhere by agreater amount. And we will give the public theopportunity to force the worst regulations to berepealed.To encourage new businesses to start up, wewill reduce the number of forms needed toregister a new business – moving towards a‘one-click’ registration model – to make Britainthe fastest place in the world to start a business,and end the restrictions on social tenantsstarting a business from their homes.We are proud of the last Conservativegovernment’s industrial relations reforms,which helped bring about our economic revivalin the 1980s, and we will always be prepared tobuild on them if necessary.Support innovation andsustainable developmentGovernment procurement is a £200 billion ayear market that can be used much better tostimulate enterprise and innovation. We willtake steps to open up government procurementto small and innovative businesses by:• publishing online all government tenderdocuments for contracts worth over £10,000via the Supply2Gov website;• creating a level playing field for open sourceICT in government procurement; and,• opening up contracts to SME s by breakingup large ICT projects into smallercomponents.Britain’s complex and unwieldy planningsystem has long been cited as a significantbarrier to growth and wealth creation. We willcreate a presumption in favour of sustainabledevelopment in the planning system. We willabolish the unelected Infrastructure PlanningCommission (IPC) and replace it with anefficient and democratically-accountablesystem that provides a fast-track process formajor infrastructure projects. We will:• use private or hybrid Bills to promote majorprojects, such as our plans for a national highspeed rail network;• ensure that all other major infrastructureprojects are considered at planning inquirieswhich have binding timetables and whichfocus on planning issues – with finalpermission given by a Minister; and,• provide transitional arrangements for projectsalready before the IPC to ensure that theseprojects are not disrupted or delayed.

Attract the brightest and best toour country
Immigration has enriched our nation over theyears and we want to attract the brightest andthe best people who can make a real differenceto our economic growth. But immigrationtoday is too high and needs to be reduced. Wedo not need to attract people to do jobs thatcould be carried out by British citizens, giventhe right training and support. So we will takesteps to take net migration back to the levelsof the 1990s – tens of thousands a year, nothundreds of thousands.To help achieve this goal, we will introduce anumber of measures, such as:setting an annual l • imit on the number of non-EU economic migrants admitted into the UKto live and work;• limiting access only to those who will bringthe most value to the British economy; and,• applying transitional controls as a matter ofcourse in the future for all new EU MemberStates.In addition, we will promote integration intoBritish society, as we believe that everyonecoming to this country must be ready toembrace our core values and become a partof their local community. So there will be anEnglish language test for anyone coming hereto get married.We want to encourage students to come to ouruniversities and colleges, but our student visasystem has become the biggest weakness in ourborder controls. A Conservative governmentwill strengthen the system of granting studentvisas so that it is less open to abuse. We wantto make it easier for reputable universities andcolleges to accept applications, while puttingextra scrutiny on new institutions looking toaccept foreign students or existing institutionsnot registered with Companies House. Inaddition, we will:• insist foreign students at new or unregisteredinstitutions pay a bond in order to study inthis country, to be repaid after the studenthas left the country at the end of their studies;• ensure foreign students can prove thatthey have the financial means to supportthemselves in the UK; and,• require that students must usually leave thecountry and reapply if they want to switchto another course or apply for a work permit.
