Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228010009.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

Making Britain Competitive

A climate of enterprise and competition is vital if British industry and products are to compete effectively in overseas markets. Yet the current Government has concentrated instead on converting public into private monopolies.

We will:

    Stimulate competition. We will take tough action against monopolies, mergers and financial raids. The Monopolies and Mergers Commission will be combined with the Office of Fair Trading and made independent of government, increasing its effectiveness. We will introduce a Restrictive Practices Act to penalise anti-competitive behaviour and end price-fixing by cartels. We will encourage greater competition in the banking sector.
    Break up monopolies. We will break up the monopoly providers of services such as British Telecom and British Gas. We will permit access by private operators to the British Rail track network. We will liberalise the coal industry by transferring ownership of coal reserves to the Crown (in line with other minerals), and issuing licences to operate pits to other groups, as well as British Coal.
    Promote consumer rights. We will take the lead within the EC to ensure that all products come with accurate, full and simple product and service information. We will give consumer watchdogs, including the regulators and trading standards departments, greater powers, and improve redress for inadequate goods and services.
    Encourage decentralised wage bargaining. Our plans to spread employee ownership and participation will encourage wages to be st according to the profitability of individual firms rather than to some national 'going rate'. In addition, we will encourage moves towards greater decentralisation of wage bargaining at company level and, in the longer term as national and regional government develops, in the public sector.

