Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228010023.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

Providing Good Housing

Decent, affordable and safe housing is vital to personal happiness and family life. We will encourage home ownership, but we recognise that the housing market has been distored by mortgage tax relief, and we believe that choice in housing means providing more rented accommodation in both public and private sectors.

We will:

    `
    Introduce housing cost relief weighted towards those most in need and available to house buyers and renters. This will replace mortgage tax relief for future home buyers, which often helps most those who need it least, and cause enormous distortions in the savings and housing markets. People holding mortgages will be protected: they will have the choice of moving to housing cost relief or continuing to receive mortgage interest tax relief.
    Boost house building and renovation. We will relax controls on local authority capital receipts, especially for new council building, for houses built in cooperation with housing associations, and for renovation and repair work. We recognise that the urgent need for homes can only be met by mobalising both private investment and public spending. We will therefore create a new Partnership Housing sector to ensure high-quality affordable rented housing.
    Improve tenant's rights to better standards of repair and maintenance in the public and private sectors. We will encourage councils to create more tenants' cooperatives. We will retain the right of council tenants to opt for a change of landlord, but only after a fair ballot.
    Take urgent action on homelessness. We will pay income support to claimants in advance and assist with initial deposits, extend the duty of local authorities to provide accommodation for 16-18 year olds, and encourage councils to assist each other with housing needs. We will fund the provision of short-term rented housing to reduce the use of bed and breakfast accommodation. We will legislate to bring into use dwellings left empty without reasonable cause for more than a year.
    Adopt new environmental standards for all buildings, commercial and domestic. We will introduce a requirement for energy audits on all new buildings as a pre-condition of grants for home insulation, solar heating and other energy-saving measures. Homes which meet the new standards will be exempt from stamp duty on house purchase. We will encourage shared combined heat and power schemes, and encourage those planning new houses to take into account the scope for passive solar heating.

Home Energy Efficiency Discount

Saving energy in the home makes good environmental sense, and will save money on electricity and gas bills. We will make houses which meet high standards of energy efficiency exempt from the first GBP 1000 of stamp duty when they are sold. Their energy standard will be assessed by an energy audit carried out by the local authority's energy efficiency unit.

If a home does not meet the minimum standard, the owner will be able to claim back all money spent within the first year after purchase on raising it to that level, though, for example, home insulation, up to the amount of stampt duty they paid when they bought the property (up to a maximum of GBP 1000). This will help to cut pollution and save energy and give a valuable boost to the housing market.

