Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228070002.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

Foreword

“The true costof the EU isestimated atup to £120bna year”
In June 2009, the UK Independence Party(UKIP) beat the ruling Labour Government aswell as the Liberal Democrats in the Europeanelections, the most recent major national vote.UKIP achieved 2.4 million votes and 16.5% ofthe national vote. The message was clear: UKIPis here to stay.UKIP has 12 MEPs, two Lords, and more than100 local councillors spread across the country.Now we are asking the British people to vote inour first directly elected Westminster MPs.While withdrawal from the European Union(EU) political superstate is central to UKIP’smessage, the party has a full range of policiesthat have helped it grow to become Britain’sfourth largest political party.This manifesto illustrates how withdrawal fromthe EU can benefit the UK right across thespectrum, from immigration to crime, tax, jobsand the economy, pensions, public services,and even through to animal welfare and PostOffices. Few realise just how much the EU nowcontrols and interferes with our day-to-daylives, despite never having obtained permissionto do so from the British people.Europhile propagandists say that 60% of ourtrade and three million British jobs depend onour EU membership. This is untrue. Europeancompanies sell us more than we sell them; weare their largest client. So our trade and jobswould continue if we left the European Union,and we would benefit by escaping from its cripplingover-regulation.Today, a large majority of our national lawis imposed by Brussels (for example, 72% ofbusiness regulation). All told, there are morethan 120,000 EU directives and regulations inforce in the UK. In addition, European Court ofJustice verdicts, the EU Arrest Warrant, Europoland the EU’s body of law, Corpus Juris, allact to undermine our legal and constitutionalsystem.
As one of the two largest contributors to theEU budget, Britain now gives £16.4bn grossp.a in cash to Brussels (£45m a day). Our netcontribution amounts to £6.4bn p.a., which willrise to more than £10bn with the loss of our rebate.Including indirect costs such as red tape,the true cost of the EU to the UK is estimated atup to £120 billion a year.The current political elite - ‘the LibLabConsensus’- need to hide this massive surrenderof power from the voters. They employ tacticssuch as introducing EU laws as obscure statutoryinstruments and regularly deny the realityof who actually runs our country. Some nowroutinely serve EU interests before those of theirown country.Yet the British people are not fooled, and aconsistent majority want to leave the EU. A BBCPolitics Show poll in 2009 showed 55% wantout of the EU. In 2008 an ITV Luton referendumshowed 54% wanting to leave. Yet nobodyaged under 54 has had a chance to vote onthis issue. We need a new referendum on EUmembership. Only UKIP represents the majorityview.Labour and the Liberal Democrats shamefullycontrived to break their last manifesto commitmentsand deny the British people a referendumon the appalling Lisbon Treaty (in realityan EU constitution), showing utter contempt fordemocracy. The Conservatives were little better,with their EU ‘Cast Iron Guarantee’ beingshown to be brittle and worthless.UKIP is the only party determined to bringpower and control back to Westminster andthe British people. Only UKIP will enable us togovern in the best interests of the UK.It is time for straight talking.Lord Pearson of RannochParty LeaderNigel Farage MEPChief Party SpokesmanDavid Campbell Bannerman MEPDeputy Leader and Head of Policy

