Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040185.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Dont Raise Tax but Cut Expenditure on Non-Essentials, Says BNP
April 28, 2010

The British National Party says that the obvious answer to the budget deficit problem is to first cut all expenditure on non-essential outlays before raising tax.

These non-essential expenditures have been identified by the BNP as follows: the annual costs of 18 billion spent on global warming, the 13 billion spent on immigration, the 4 billion spent on asylum, the 15 billion spent on EU membership, the 9.1 billion spent on foreign aid, the billions spent fighting illegal and immoral foreign wars, and the billions spent on politically correct social engineering projects.

All of the other parties either seek to ring fence or even increase expenditure in the areas identified by the BNP.

All the parties  except the BNP  have fallen hook, line and sinker for the global warming hoax and seek to impose punitive taxes upon the public as a result.

All the parties  except the BNP  seek to either maintain current levels of immigration (the balanced migration scam) or even increase them.

All the parties  except the BNP  seek to maintain the asylum racket even though there is no legal reason why asylum seekers should cross dozens of safe countries to get to Britain.

All the parties  except the BNP  want to retain Britains membership of the EU.

All the parties  except the BNP  want to increase foreign aid expenditure to 0.7 percent of Gross Domestic Product, which will amount to 13.1 billion per year.

All the parties  except the BNP  seek to intensify and extend British involvement in the illegal and immoral war in Afghanistan which costs the taxpayers 5 billion per year.

All the parties  except the BNP  support the neo-con war drums against Iran which will cost even more billions.

All the parties  except the BNP  supported the Equality Act and all the leftist social engineering equality and diversity programmes which cost the taxpayers untold billions.

All of these expenditures outlined above can be cut without affecting one penny of frontline services in Britain and can be put back into the domestic pot for use inside Britain.

The obvious simplicity of the solution will go a long way to avoiding tax raises and cutbacks to services to British people, something which the Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS) has said is inevitable should the Tories, Lib Dems or Labour win the election.

According to the IFS, none of those parties has come clean about how they would tackle the record 163 billion state deficit.

According to the IFS, Labour is planning for taxes to go up by 607 a family, but another unannounced 270 will be needed if their plans are to be achieved.

The IFS also pointed out that the Tories would need to raise taxes by more than 504 a household to meet their agenda, while the Lib Dems would cost every family 758 a year.

Posted in National News | Comments (64)

