Text ID:
uk_pm_el_83_228020030.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 1983
-------------------------------------

Leisure for living

Labour believes that a comprehensive approach is needed, at national and local levels, to provide services and facilities for leisure.

The arts

A crucial part will be played in this by the arts. Labour's aim is to make the arts, in their broadest sense, an accepted part of everyday life for the whole population. We will place special emphasis on their availability to the young, the handicapped and the retired. Substantial extra funds will be provided, with priority being given to the regions and to access for those on low incomes. Local authorities will have a statutory duty to provide adequate arts and entertainments facilities; and the arts will be zero-rated in respect of VAT.

We will retain a Minister of the Arts, whose first task will be to undertake a major survey on the disparities in provision between regions and to produce proposals for action. The public bodies which support the arts will also be made more open and accountable, and include more representation from workers in the arts, local authorities and consumers. The Craft Council will be strengthened, and regional museums and galleries supported through a Museums and Galleries Council.

For the film industry, we will establish a British Film Authority, responsible for the National Film Finance Corporation. This will ensure that revenue from a levy on ticket sales goes to British film-makers who produce British films. We will also ensure that the profits from British film-making and distribution are channelled back into British films - and that the present two-company monopoly of film distribution in Britain is ended. The new British Film Authority will be responsible for extending public ownership into film distribution.

Sport and recreation

Labour will accept responsibility for the provision of a broadly-based leisure service. We will:

    Encourage greater participation in sport and recreation.
    Give incentives to voluntary bodies to involve themselves more widely in the provision of sporting and community facilities.
    Encourage local authorities and other owners of facilities to make them much more available to public use.
    Set up an immediate enquiry into the financial basis of sport and recreation.
        Review the provision of national sporting facilities, so as to secure a fairer geographical distribution.
        Ensure that the sporting talent of the nation receives sufficient support to enable them to bring sporting success to Britain. 

We will also provide for the wider use of the countryside for recreational purposes, such as angling and other water-based sports. Angling will be given additional support, by ensuring wider access to rivers and lakes, financial assistance to provide a wider ownership of fishing waters, improvements in respect of conservation, and action to prevent pollution.

The media

Our aims in the media are to safeguard freedom of expression, encourage diversity and establish greater accountability. For all the media, we will introduce a statutory right of reply to ensure that individuals can set the record straight. We will introduce stronger measures to prevent any further concentration in the media.

For the press, we will encourage diversity by:

    Setting up a launch fund to assist new publications.
    Ensuring that all major wholesalers accept any lawful publication, and arrange for its proper supply and display, subject to a handling charge.
    Preventing acquisition of further newspapers by large press chains.
    Protecting freedom of expression by prohibiting joint control of the press, commercial radio and television.
    Breaking up major concentrations of press ownership, by setting an upper limit for the number of major publications in the hands of a single proprietor or press group.
    Replacing the Press Council with a stronger, more representative body. 

In broadcasting, we Will aim to make both broadcasting itself, and the organisations responsible, more accountable and representative - and to provide greater public access. Our aim is to promote a more wide-ranging and genuine pluralism in the media, and we set out our prop6sals in Labour's Programme 1982. We will also seek to introduce a genuinely independent adjudication of grievances and complaints. The licence fee will be phased out for pensioners, during the lifetime of the Labour government.

The high standards of British public service broadcasting are threatened by Tory plans to introduce cable TV on free-market principles. We will regulate satellite and cable provision and foster the same principles of diversity and pluralism as conventional broadcasting authorities. To avoid wasteful duplication, we will entrust the provision of the national cable system to British Telecom.

Animal protection

The Labour Party was the first major political party to publish a policy statement, in 1978, on animal protection - Living Without Cruelty; and these policies are reaffirmed in Labour's Programme 1982. We believe that all animals - whether in the wild, domesticated or farmed - should be properly treated.

To achieve our aims we will transform the Farm Animal Welfare Council into a Standing Royal Commission on Animal Protection. We will also urgently review the 1876 Cruelty to Animals Act. A high priority will be given to research into alternatives to using live animals in experiments, and to restrictions on the use of live animals in experiments - with proper control and supervision in order to avoid pain.

Hare coursing, fox hunting and all forms of hunting with dogs will be made illegal. This will not, however, affect shooting and fishing. The use of snares will also be made illegal.

We will lay down clear conditions on freedom of movement for livestock; and we will ensure that our legislation meets, at least, the requirements of the European Convention for the Protection of Animals kept for Farming Purposes. We will also ban, over a phased period, all extreme livestock systems and introduce legislation to ensure that animals are slaughtered as near as possible to the point of production. We will ban the export of live food animals.

Animals kept in zoos, circuses and safari parks will be included in our animals protection legislation. Health and safety at work legislation will be reviewed in order to better protect people employed on such premises.

