Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040019.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP

The NHS  Europes Free Abortion Service
March 16, 2010

MASTERCARD-sromPolish women are being urged to take advantage of cheap flights and the British taxpayer to travel to the UK for free pregnancy terminations on the NHS.

A feminist womens rights group is urging pregnant Poles to take advantage of cheap flights and hotels in a campaign which features a pregnant semi-naked woman with the message  my choice written across her stomach.

It may be her choice, but its very much at our expense.

It is claimed that posters and leaflets are being distributed by the pro-abortion campaigners throughout Poland, a Catholic country where abortions are illegal except in exceptional circumstances, such as when a woman is the victim of rape or has been diagnosed as likely to have a deformed child.

The adverts, which mimic Mastercards series of priceless adverts, depict a pregnant woman with the message: Plane ticket to England at special offer: 300 zloty.

Accommodation: 240 zloty.

Abortion in a public clinic: 0 zloty.

Relief after a procedure carried out in decent conditions  priceless.

The zloty is currently worth about 25 pence.

At the foot of each advertisement are two globes resembling a Mastercard logo and the message: For everything, you pay less than an underground abortion in Poland.

This is just another example of the long-established health tourism scam where foreigners travel to Britain to exploit our NHS  a scam estimated to cost the NHS 200 million a year in clinical fees and an undisclosed sum in translator costs.

Although foreigners receiving treatment are supposed to pay their bills, NHS health trusts frequently find it impossible to recoup the money.

Polish and other EU abortion tourists travel to Britain to exploit EU regulations that give them the legal right to a free abortion on the NHS, so long as they claim that the procedure is an emergency, they do not have to pay a penny towards the costs.

This situation has earned Britain a shameful appellation as the Abortion Capital of Europe.

A spokesperson for the charity Patient Concern said: When you consider the mess the NHS is in at the moment we cant afford to treat people who have been paying into it all their lives, let alone women from abroad who want to get rid of unwanted pregnancies.

srom-poster-poland

Posted in National News | 79 Comments 

