Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030176.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

Salmond leads STV poll on BBC debate
Mon, 03/05/2010 - 11:55

The STV live poll on tonight's BBC Scottish debate shows SNP leader Alex Salmond leading the participants from the three Westminster parties.

The poll conducted online showed the SNP leader to be the clear winner in the debate as Labour's troubles continued and the Tories and Liberals found themselves rejected by Scotland's voting public.

SNP Westminster Leader Angus Robertson said:

This instant result shows the SNP is the party championing Scotlands interests in Westminster.  With voters across Scotland looking for a party who will protect their interests in Westminster this result shows the SNP is in prime position to deliver strong champions for Scotland at Westminster.

Alex Salmond was the clear winner in this debate.  His statesmanlike approach was a stark contrast to the squabbling put forward by the opposition leaders and Jim Murphy's difficulties after he was exposed as flipping his homes under the discredited expenses regime.

"With the audience backing a balanced parliament, the support for Alex Salmond in this debate shows the best way to get that result for Scotland is with a vote for the SNP.

"On cuts, on trident and expenses, the three UK parties had nothing new to offer and put forward the same Westminster machine politics that has been found wanting.

"This excellent result puts the SNP in a strong position as we enter the final few days of this campaign."

The poll at live.stv.tv asked:

With just a few minutes left, who do you think has performed best in this Scottish leaders' debate?

1st Alex Salmond

2nd David Mundell

2nd Jim Murphy

4th Alistair Carmichael

live.stv.tv "Matt Roper: The poll had a few technical issues but looked like a big win for Alex Salmond, David Mundell and Jim Murphy joint second and Alistair Carmichael last. Not sure how many of you got to vote, so not so scientific this time."
Filed under:

    Elections
    SNP


