Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228060075.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

RURAL JOBS AND SERVICES

Changes in agriculture and other traditional industries will affect employment opportunities in the countryside. We will continue to target help through the Rural Development Commission, and ask the RDC to review the Rural Development Areas to ensure that its efforts are targeted on the areas of most need. We are committed to developing tourism in ways which provide all-year-round jobs and bring benefit to less well-known parts of our countryside, without damaging the environment. We have recently published new planning policy guidance which makes it clear how the countryside can benefit from new businesses and jobs, if the location and design of development are handled with sensitivity

In local government, many of our shire counties and districts have led the way in raising the quality of public service. Local post offices, local transport and local schools all have an important role to play in sustaining rural life.

    We will consult on our recently published draft planning policy guidance designed to provide a clear framework for decisions on developments to aid tourism.
    We will widen the availability of the Rural Development Commission's successful Redundant Buildings Grant Scheme, and strengthen other RDC programmes.
    We will maintain our special programmes to promote affordable homes in rural areas.
    We are fully committed to maintaining a national network of post offices.
    We will continue to assist local authorities who want to subsidise rural transport.
    We will enable village schools that wish to apply for Grant-Maintained status to do so in small groups, thus enabling them to share management tasks while still enjoying the benefits of independence.
    The expansion of GP fund-holding will bring particular benefits to rural areas because of the convenience of different services - such as physiotherapy and consultant appointments - being offered in the GP's surgery. 

