Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228050007.txt

Party Manifesto: Green (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

taxation
Promoting fairness,sustainability and citizenshipThis manifesto is not an uncosted wish list.It is a practical and realistic plan to movetowards a more equal society, fight climatechange and protect public services.Unlike the other parties, we argue thatincreases in taxation for the better off arerequired. This is no bad thing in itself.Taxes are the fees we pay as citizens forservices that are best provided collectively.They are also an instrument for fairness.The corrosive belief that taxes are no betterthan a necessary evil, nurtured by successiveGovernments over the past 30 years, is at theroot of the difficulties in financing publicservices during the same period.So the Green Party wants to rehabilitateprogressive taxation. This requires two things:raising taxes fairly and explaining themhonestly. Labour’s plans depend upon wishfulthinking about how quickly the economy andtax revenues will recover. They are unwillingto tell you about the cuts and tax increasescoming later. The Conservatives will cutpublic spending, but have not put forward aplan that adds up to remotely enough cutswithout tax increases to cut the deficit.In contrast, the Green Party is open aboutwhat we would cut, what we would defend,and about the fact that we need to raisetaxation from 36 per cent of GDP in 2009–10to around 45 per cent in 2013. This wouldhalve the gap between Government
expenditure and revenues by 2013–14(as the Labour Government proposes) andprogressively close the gap thereafter.We favour a Robin Hood Tax – a tax onfinancial transactions (see page 47) – butbecause that would work best with wideinternational agreement we do not relyon it to fill the gap in the Government’sfinances, though we believe there is alsoscope to act unilaterally by introducing atax on sterling foreign exchange transactions,and that the UK should demonstrate globalleadership.Our tax changes come in two groups – thosethat close the gap between rich and poor, andthose that mainly discourage environmentallydamaging activity.
Taxes to reduce inequality
We support a special tax on bankers’ bonuses,though we would make it permanent.Also, no one in one of the wholly or partlystate-owned banks should get a bonus ofmore than £25,000. And our changes topension tax reliefs (see box on page 13) willradically reduce the huge advantages thepresent pension system gives to the mostwealthy. But this is only a beginning.We would also:• Introduce the new higher rate of incometax at 50% for incomes above £100,000,raising £2.3bn pa.• Abolish the upper limit for NationalInsurance contributions, raising £9.1bnin 2010.• Help lower earners by raising the lowerNational Insurance limit to the personalallowance rate (which is £6,475 a year,or £124.52 a week), costing £3.9bn.• Help lower earners by reintroducing the10% tax band and the 22p basic rate,costing £14.9bn.• Increase the main rate of Corporation Taxfrom 28% back to 30% and reduce the smallfirms rate back to 20%, altogether raising£1.4bn.• Raise the Capital Gains Tax rate from 18%to the recipient’s highest income tax rate(that is 22%, 40% or 50%), raising £1bn.• Reform inheritance tax, so that the levelof taxation depends on the wealth of therecipient rather than that of the deceased,raising £3bn by 2013. This will encouragepeople to distribute their property widely.• Crack down on tax havens and othermethods of tax evasion and avoidance, raising£10bn in 2010 rising to £13bn by 2013.In particular press for a transparent internationalaccounting standard that requirescompanies to report on a country-by-countrybasis so that their profits can be locatedand taxed.• Reform Council Tax by making people inmore expensive houses pay more and thosein smaller ones less, adding an additionalband at the top for the biggest houses,raising £1.7bn. In the long run we favourmoving to a system of Land Value Tax, wherethe level of taxation depends on the rentalvalue of the land concerned.

Taxes to protect the environment
We would reform the tax system to put fargreater emphasis on taxes that discourageenvironmentally or other damaging behaviour.If these changes were implemented the shareof environmental taxation in total taxes woulddouble from about 7 per cent now to 14 percent in 2013. Some of these proposals involveraising existing taxes, some are new taxes andsome modify existing exemptions and reliefsto achieve environmental purposes. In thelong run we would aim to replace VAT byenvironmental taxes, but the current state ofthe public finances does not allow this in theshort term.We also recognise that some of these changes,for example on VAT or placing fuel duty onaviation, may involve international negotiationand cannot be introduced immediately.We would:• Reintroduce the fuel duty escalator,raising fuel duty by 8% per year. This willraise £2.2bn in 2010 rising to £10bn by2013. In the longer run we would introducea system of domestic carbon quotas.• Modify the regime for Corporation TaxCapital allowances so that the allowances areonly available for investment in sustainabletechnologies, raising £7bn in 2010 rising to£10bn by 2013.• Introduce VAT and fuel duty on aviation,raising £7bn in 2010 and £10bn by 2013.• Increase the rates for the Climate ChangeLevy and for Landfill Tax, raising £300m.• End the zero-rating of VAT on newdwellings, putting them on a level withconversions and renovations of existingdwellings, raising £5bn in 2010 and£7.5bn by 2013.• Tax plastic bags and other unnecessarypackaging, raising perhaps £1bn by 2013.• Levy eco-taxes on non-renewables orpollutants, in particular pesticides, organochlorines,nitrogen and artificialfertilisers and phosphates.• Introduce new taxes on use of water bybusinesses and waste heat from powerstations, raising £3bn by 2013.• Replace vehicle excise duty by a newgraduated purchase tax on vehicles that heavilypenalises over-sized or over-powered vehicles.Overall this would be tax neutral.• Make tax concessions on savings, such asISAs, only available for investment insustainable technologies, raising £1.8bn.• No longer offer zero VAT rating tofinancial services and betting duties, whichare of limited value to the real economy,raising £5.6bn by 2013.• Gradually increase alcohol and tobaccotaxes by about 50% to match anticipatedincreases in expenditures on the NHS, raising£1.4bn in 2010 rising to £5.6bn by 2013.Taken together, these tax changes are sufficientto pay for the entire programme set out inthis manifesto, and also to more than halvethe deficit as a proportion of GDP by 2013,setting the economy on a path that willalmost eliminate the deficit by the end ofthe Parliament. The details of how we wouldpay for our programme are set out in thebox opposite.

