Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228020020.txt

Party Manifesto: Labour (UK) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Britain can be pivotal to world affairs, using our alliances to advance our interests and values.
The key is to use our strengths of history and geography to engage with other countries, not retreat.
That is Labour?s promise.

In 1997 Labour pledged to give new priority to tackling global poverty. Four years on, there have been real achievements ? a cabinet minister heads an internationally respected department, the aid budget has been substantially raised, and tied aid abolished.
Britain is playing a leading world role on debt relief, education, HIV/AIDS, and in responding to humanitarian disasters. With strong UK leadership, the international development effort is now increasingly focused on poverty reduction.
This is morally right, but also in our interest.
Many of the world?s biggest challenges ? from violent conflict to rapid population growth to environmental threat ? are caused or exacerbated by global poverty and inequality.

There can be no secure future for any of us unless we promote greater global social justice.
Labour will continue to focus Britain?s development effort on the achievement of the international development targets by 2015 ? including halving the proportion of the world?s population living in extreme poverty, reducing child and infant mortality by two-thirds, primary education for all children, and sustainable development plans in every country.
With Labour the aid budget will rise to 0.33 per cent of GNP by 2003-04, reaching F3.6 billion ? a 45 per cent increase in real terms since 1997 level. We remain committed to the UN target of 0.7 per cent of national income devoted to development and will make further substantial increases over the next Parliament. We remain committed to our bill, blocked by the Tories, to consolidate our poverty-focused approach to development We are using this aid to support political and economic reform in developing countries. Our aid is an investment to help countries put in place policies to raise the growth rate with greater equity, crack down on corruption, promote human rights, including for women and girls, and develop effective governance and democracy. We will legislate to toughen controls over UK nationals who commit offences of corruption abroad.
Labour will champion increased effectiveness and a stronger focus on poverty reduction within international institutions ? particularly the EU, but also the World Bank, IMF, UN and Commonwealth ? with full support for poverty reduction strategies where they genuinely prioritise poverty reduction. We are committed to international action to put the needs of children at the centre of these strategies. By 2006 we want to raise to 70 per cent the proportion of EU aid going to low income countries, and work with the Commission, Parliament and other governments to strengthen the EU?s development effort.
Labour has led internationally on debt relief, providing 100 per cent relief for countries committed to spending the proceeds on povertyreduction.
We will work to help more of the heavily indebted poor countries qualify for debt relief where this benefits the poor. And we will work to prevent new debt burdens through international agreement not to give export credits for excessive military spending or prestige projects.
Education has a special place for Labour. We will increase further our support for quality primary education for all, particularly for girls.
Our Imfundo project, part of an F800 million education programme, will bring together public and private sector commitment to use IT to ensure effective teacher training and education management. We will give top priority to combating the spread of HIV/AIDS, which is inflicting massive human and economic costs across the developing world. We will work for the creation of a global health fund to make essential drugs and commodities more accessible to the poor, focusing on TB, malaria and HIV/AIDS. This will complement our existing support for the development of basic healthcare systems, and our new tax credits to incentivise research by the drug companies into the diseases of poverty.
Development goes much wider than aid and debt relief. It is also about how we manage the global economy. Our aim is to shape globalisation so that it works better for the world?s poor.

Trade is key but so is private investment. We will promote socially responsible business practice through advisory services on codes of social responsibility, the ethical trading initiative, the Export Credit Guarantee Department?s new code of business principles, the Commonwealth Development Corporation?s partnership with the private sector, and our initiatives to encourage private investment in infrastructure.
Nowhere will our resolve be more tested than in Africa. Labour is committed to strengthening our partnership for development with Africa. We will work with reforming governments, international institutions, the private sector and civil society in support of nationally owned development strategies. We will also redouble our efforts to prevent and resolve violent conflicts in Africa, using our new Africa conflict fund to provide help for security sector reform, demilitarisation programmes and tighter controls over small arms.
The poor make the smallest per capita contribution to climate change, but are often most affected when it happens. We are convinced by the scientific evidence of climate change ? and convinced that now is the time to act. We need action at local, national and international level if we are to preserve the stability of our natural environment over the next 50 years. The principle of mutual responsibility that governs our approach to social problems also applies to environmental issues.

The healthy future of our environment is one of the world?s great challenges. We must make substantial changes in the way we work and live to safeguard all our futures. The UK played a leading role in the Kyoto conference. The targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions agreed at that conference are a vital first step in the battle against global warming. It is critical that the whole international community plays its part in making a reality of sustainable development. We are determined to play a constructive role at the ?Rio plus 10? meeting in  environmental challenge Natural resources? Labour is committed to a healthy environment and renewable energy, taxing pollution and rewarding clean production Promoting human rights? Tony Blair with Nelson Mandela International aid? education has a special place for Labour
The choices for Britain.


