Warning on patient charging
Sat, 04/04/2015 - 11:23

Warnings over the prospect of patient charging being introduced for NHS services have underlined the need for a strong team of SNP MPs who will protect Scotland’s Health Service.

Reports in today’s Guardian quote Dr Mark Porter, the head of the BMA, warning that the next Westminster Government may introduce a system of patient charging, warning “I think they will be tempted. They said in 1950 that a Labour government wouldn’t introduce charging and it did.”

Dr Porter also warned that such a move would be morally wrong, stating “It’s inescapable that you’re deterring people from seeking healthcare. You deter poor people and sick people from seeking the healthcare they need.”

In Scotland, the SNP has abolished prescription charges – the charge on the NHS that Dr Porter refers to – and has set out an anti-austerity plan that would see the NHS budget across the UK increase by £9.5 billion. This would see Scotland’s health budget rise by £2 billion by 2020.

Commenting, SNP MSP Bob Doris said:

“This timely warning highlights the real threat to the Health Service that could come from Westminster moves towards patient charging, privatisation and austerity.

“In Government the SNP has abolished the tax on ill-health that prescription charges represents and the SNP will always stand up for the NHS.

“A strong team of SNP MPs would use their clout to secure additional investment in health spending across the UK and stand up to any moves at Westminster to extend the privatisation and patient-charging agenda.

“The choice in this election is absolutely clear, between the Westminster parties and their shared commitment to the austerity cuts which are putting real pressure on our public services – or the SNP’s sensible plans for a modest increase in public spending to ensure our hard-working NHS staff are supported and that patients continue to benefit from the first-class health care they deserve.”

Dr Mark Porter’s warnings can be viewed at http://www.theguardian.com/society/2015/apr/03/basic-nhs-services-could-...
