Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228060010.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Lower taxes

All over the world, governments of all political persuasions are cutting taxes on people and businesses.

Yet Britain is going in the opposite direction. Labour promised not to raise taxes. They have broken that promise. Experts have catalogued forty-five separate tax increases since 1997.

Labour have said that, if they were re-elected, they would increase spending each year faster than the growth of our national income. That inevitably means even higher taxes.

Higher taxes come naturally to Labour, because they don't trust people to spend their own money.

Conservatives do trust people to spend their own money, and we will therefore pursue a very different policy.

We will be a tax-cutting government.

Each year, as the economy grows, we can spend more on vital public services, but also allow people to keep more of their own money. We will improve the performance of government and make policy changes so that after two years we will be able to save £8 billion a year compared to Labour's plans. These changes do not affect schools, the NHS, police or defence.

We will return this £8 billion to people in tax cuts - set out throughout this manifesto - targeted to help those who have been hit hardest by Labour's tax increases.

Conservatives understand that our circumstances change through our lives - most of us face financial pressures when we have young children, for example, or find ourselves living on a fixed income in old age. So we will carefully target tax cuts to help people at times in their lives when they need it most, when they are struggling hard with difficult responsibilities.

This is not the end of our tax cutting ambitions. With proper control of government spending in the second half of the next Parliament we can cut taxes further. Among our priorities will be to raise the Inheritance Tax threshold and to raise the threshold at which people begin to pay higher rate income tax, because it currently catches people who are not, by any definition, rich.

Conservative tax cuts

    Abolish taxes on savings and dividends 	£3 billion
    Raise Personal Allowance for pensioners by £2,000 	£0.8 billion
    Increase Children's Tax Credit by £200 a year for families with children under the age of 5 	£0.3 billion
    Abolish tax on Widowed Mother's Allowance and Widowed Parent's Allowance 	£0.1 billion
    Introduce a new Married Couple's Allowance 	£1 billion
    Cut petrol tax by at least 6p per litre 	£2.2 billion
    Tax relief on Approved Share Options 	£0.1 billion
    Regeneration Tax Breaks 	£0.2 billion
    Business Rates reductions 	£0.2 billion
    Abolish IR35 	£ 0.1 billion

The tax burden has risen under Labour by 3 per cent of GDP from 35.2 per cent in 1996/97 to 38.2 per cent in 2000/01 - that is the equivalent of 10p on the basic rate of income tax.

