Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040122.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Tory Thieves Steal BNP Policy Once Again
April 10, 2010

tombstone

Although imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, the Conservative Party and their puppet front organisation UKIP, have taken it to extremes by blatantly ripping off at least four important policy directions from the British National Party, a study by BNP News has revealed.

Earlier this week, David Cameron announced his national service plan for teenagers which would amount to a form of community service.

This plan is however nothing but a reworking of the BNPs policy which has been in place for many years.

The BNP policy, which can be found by clicking here, states that the party will introduce a compulsory Community Award Scheme for all school-leavers to teach them work ethics and social and community values.

This would consist of work caring for the elderly or handicapped people, or environmental or heritage restoration projects, or military training.

These courses would be character-building and instil discipline, social and community values and work ethics in all young people. Service in this scheme would entitle each individual to get something back from the society to which they have learnt to contribute, such as free university education, a properly supported apprenticeship, or business training and start-up capital for would-be entrepreneurs.

The Tory front party, UKIP, has also climbed on the policy theft bandwagon and has pinched no less than three important policy positions from the BNP.

In January this year, UKIP announced that it wants burkas banned in Britain. Unfortunately for that phony party, the BNP debated this issue at its annual conference and adopted a motion calling for the banning of the burka from public view  more than three years ago.

At the time, the BNP was also the only party to sound the alarm about the threat of militant Islamism in Britain. Now that events have proven the BNP correct, the shameless opportunists of the UKIP party have tried to steal this policy as well.

UKIP also recently lifted parts of the BNPs welfare policy almost verbatim off the BNPs website and presented it as their own.

These attempts to muscle in on the BNPs territory are however doomed to failure as the public knows that UKIP is a one-issue pressure group whose leader formally offered to disband that party if the Tories agreed to hold a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty.

The BNP remains the only party to have consistently campaigned on the topics of vital importance to the future of Britain, and does not have to resort to petty theft in order to tap into popular opinion.

Posted in National News | Comments (75)

