Text ID:
uk_pm_el_74_228020005.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 1974
-------------------------------------

Inflation

The first priority must be a determined attack on inflation and the appalling overseas deficit which we inherited. Inflation is a World-Wide problem and there are no easy answers, but for us the crisis was made worse than it need have been because of the financial disasters Labour inherited from the Tory Government.

Inflation is one of the greatest economic perils we face. It afflicts all the countries of the world. From Japan to France, from the United States to Britain, prices are rising at between 15% and 25% a year. Oil, the lifeblood of industry and transport, costs four times what it did a year ago; wheat, feedgrains, sugar and other imported foodstuffs, nearly double. These powerful inflationary forces cannot be wholly mastered by any single government acting alone. It will require international co-operation both to curb inflation and to avoid a slump.

But there are things the Government can - and must - do. We were elected last February to govern a Britain that had been greatly weakened by the policies of the Conservatives. The Heath Government allowed a huge deficit to accumulate on our balance of payments, even before the oil price rises hit us. It borrowed and printed hundreds of millions of pounds at home, fuelling the fires of inflation; it let our scarce resources go into office blocks, luxury flats and property speculation, at a time that Britain badly needed investment in industry and in housing for rent. Britain, in February 1974, was in bad shape to withstand the economic hurricane.

We reject entirely the policy put forward by some Tories of fighting inflation by throwing millions of people out of work.

We are doing everything within our power to curb inflation. And where rising prices are outside our control, as with imports of oil and raw materials, we have sought to protect the least well-off, the pensioner and the low-paid, for whom inflation is not just a worry but a nightmare.

We have:

    Stopped printing money to finance unnecessary expenditure;
    Cut VAT from 10% to 8%;
    Reduced gross profit margins by 10% and agreed with the food trade to concentrate profit cuts on essential foods;
    Frozen rents and stabilised mortgage rates;
    Subsidised basic foods - bread, flour, butter, cheese, milk and tea- in a way that gives most benefit to the least well-off;
    Taken powers to set maximum prices for subsidised foods; laid down a minimum of three months between price rises, and stopped' the 'sticky label' trick;
    Set up a National Consumer Agency, backed by a net work of local consumer advice centres. 

We shall:

    Provide detailed information to shoppers on where to get value for money;
    renegotiate the Common Agricultural Policy of the Common Market to make sure shoppers get secure supplies of food at fair prices;
    Introduce unit pricing for meat, fish, fruit and vegetables;
    Put teeth into nationalised industry consumer councils and finance them independently. 

