Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228020008.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

The Labour Party Manifesto 2010World-leading healthcare: a patient-centred NHS

Health

The challenge for Britain

To build a better health service by protecting NHSspending and by shifting to more preventative andpersonal care, clear patient guarantees and greater carein the home. The Tories will not introduce the necessaryreforms, would fail to guarantee access to services,usher in a care postcode lottery, and put the interests ofpatients second.The next stage of national renewal• Legally binding guarantees for patients including theright to cancer test results within one week of referral,and a maximum 18 weeks’ wait for treatment or theoffer of going private.• Preventative healthcare through routine check-ups forthe over-40s and a major expansion of diagnostic testing.• More personal care, with the right in law to choose fromany provider who meets NHS standards of quality atNHS costs when booking a hospital appointment, oneto-one dedicated nursing for all cancer patients, andmore care at home.• The right to choose a GP in your area open at eveningsand weekends, with more services available on thehigh-street, personal care plans and rights to individualbudgets.• Access to psychological therapy for those who need it.

The NHS embodies our valuesof fairness and social justice– for 60 years it has been theembodiment of what it meansto be British. We will always putthe NHS first. In an insecureworld, people need first-classhealthcare they can rely on.Under Labour, the NHS willremain a universal healthservice, not a second-rate safetynet. Only 15 years ago, thevery existence of the NHS wasin doubt. Now with sustainedinvestment and reform, theNHS is delivering high-qualityhealthcare in safer and moreconvenient ways.But to safeguard the NHS intougher fiscal times, we needsustained reform. To prosper inthe future, the NHS will haveto respond to the challengesfacing healthcare systems acrossthe developed world: new curesand breakthrough treatments,an ageing society, an increasednumber of people with longtermconditions, ever higherpublic expectations at the sametime.So we will be tougher inensuring value for money, moredetermined in demanding thehighest standards of care and inshifting rapidly to preventativecare. Above all, the interestsof the patient will come first.No longer passive recipientsof care, patients will be activepartners with enforceableguarantees, real choice, anddirect control over services.These changes are essentialto maintain the principle atthe core of the NHS: of careprovided on the basis of need,not ability to pay.Protecting the NHS andinvesting in the front lineIn 1997, health spending asa share of national incomewas the second lowest ofall the major industrialisedcountries. The resulting failureswere visible to all: long waits,
outdated buildings, too fewdoctors and nurses.Since then, investment andreform have turned around thepublic’s experience of the NHS.A generation of new hospitalshas been built, entirely newservices created, and long waitseliminated. We are undertakingfundamental changes tocommunity services, toughdecisions on pay, and a shift incare from the hospital to thecommunity.As we complete our once-ina-generation programme ofhospital building, we will refocuscapital investment on primaryand community services so thatwe rival the best healthcaresystems in the world with ourability to identify disease early.The reforms of recent years willallow us to do more than everto release savings by cutting redtape and directing resources towhere they matter most. Wewill scale down the NHS ITprogramme, saving hundreds ofmillions of pounds, and over thenext four years, we will deliverup to £20 billion of efficienciesin the frontline NHS, ensuringthat every pound is reinvested infrontline care.Getting the most fromNHS resources: sustainedinvestment and reformWe will continue to pressahead with bold NHSreforms. All hospitals willbecome Foundation Trusts,with successful FTs given thesupport and incentives to takeover those that are underperforming.Failing hospitalswill have their managementreplaced. Foundation Trusts willbe given the freedom to expandtheir provision into primaryand community care, and toincrease their private services– where these are consistentwith NHS values, and providedthey generate surpluses that areinvested directly into the NHS.We will support an active rolefor the independent sectorworking alongside the NHSin the provision of care,particularly where they bringinnovation – such as in end-oflifecare and cancer services,and increase capacity. Wewill be uncompromising inexpecting high standards fromall NHS services – and in thecoming period we will expectPCTs to challenge all servicesto achieve the highest quality.Where changes are needed, wewill be fair to NHS services andstaff and give them a chance toimprove, but where they fail todo so we will look to alternativeprovision.Patient power will be increased.Patients requiring electivecare will have the right, in law,to choose from any providerwho meets NHS standards ofquality at NHS costs. And wewill also increase year-on-yearthe payments made to hospitalslinked to patient satisfaction andquality outcomes – up to ten percent of payment.Prevention and earlyinterventionThe NHS must be as effectiveat preventing ill health as itis at treating those in need ofcare. Prevention and earlyintervention will be at the heartof our plans for a reformedhealthcare system offeringmore for every pound wespend, significantly improvingsurvival rates for cancer, heartdisease and strokes so that weare among the very best in theworld.We all have a responsibilityto look after our own health,supported by our family andour employer. The ban onsmoking in public places willbe maintained. Wherevernecessary, we will act to protectchildren’s health from tobacco,alcohol and sunbeds.
GPs will be encouraged to keeptheir patients healthy throughexercise and healthy eatingadvice. The ambitious Change4 Life programme will supporta more active, health-consciouscountry.We will pioneer better mentalhealth care and tackle thescourge of mental illness. Overthe next Parliament more than8,000 new therapists will ensureaccess to psychological therapyfor all who need it as we seek tochange our society’s attitudes tomental illness.Empowering NHS staff andenabling MutualsCentral to our agendafor improvement is thehardworking NHS workforce.We will continue the process ofempowering staff – freeing themfrom bureaucracy and ensuringthey get proper support.We will expand the role of NHSnurses, particularly in primarycare, in line with the best clinicalevidence. And across the NHSwe will extend the right for staff,particularly nurses, to request torun their own services in the notfor-profit sector. To strengthenlocal accountability, we willincrease the membership ofFoundation Trusts to over threemillion by the end of the nextParliament.The NHS will benefit froma period of organisationalstability: we will make no topdownchanges to the structureof Primary Care Trusts orStrategic Health Authoritiesduring the next Parliament, andwe will ensure stability in thehospital payment system.Real guarantees and realchoices for patientsPeople rightly want publicservices that are not justuniversal but also personal totheir needs. We will expandpatient choice, empoweringpatients with information, andgiving individuals the right todetermine the time and placeof treatment. At the heart ofthis will be new legally bindingguarantees enshrined in theNHS constitution:• The waiting-time guaranteewill ensure that treatmentbegins within 18 weeks ofseeing your GP, or the NHSwill find you to go private.• The cancer guarantee willensure that all patients see acancer specialist within twoweeks of GP referral andthat all cancer tests will becompleted and the resultsreceived within just one week –helping save tens of thousandsof lives over the next ten years.• The health-check guaranteewill ensure that everyonebetween 40 and 74 willbe guaranteed routinehealth checks on the NHS,preventing up to 10,000 heartattacks and strokes each year.• The GP access guarantee willensure everyone has the rightto choose a GP in their areaoffering evening and weekendopening.
A personal NHSWe will ensure the NHS suitsthe lives of busy familiesexpanding further theavailability of GP-led healthcentres open seven days a week‘8 til 8’ in towns and cities.NHS organisations will offertelephone and online bookingvia the NHS Choices website.Online patient comments aboutthe quality of any NHS servicewill inform people’s choices.A new national 111 telephonenumber will make nonemergencyservices far easier forpeople to access and book.We will bring the NHS closerto people through a majorexpansion in care available athome, including chemotherapyand dialysis. More serviceswill be available from GPs andthrough local pharmacists.Patients will have the right toregister with a GP anywherethey choose, including near
their place of work. Choice ofwhen and where you are treatedwill be extended wheneverpatients are booking routineappointments.We will offer more personalhealthcare. All cancer patientswill be offered one-to-onededicated nursing for theduration of their care andwe will work with MarieCurie Cancer Care and otherproviders to guarantee everyonewho wants it the opportunity toreceive palliative care in theirown home at the end of theirlives.Everyone with a long-termcondition, such as those withdiabetes, will have the right toa care plan and an individualbudget.All women will have the right,wherever it is safe, to a homebirth,and every expectantmother will have a namedmidwife providing continuityof care. More mums anddads will be offered singlerooms if they need to stayin hospital overnight, andpost-natal care will be furtherexpanded so that every areaof the country has a FamilyNurse Partnership, supportingfamilies in greatest need.With new rights to treatmentcome new responsibilitiesfor patients: patients who failto turn up for pre-bookedappointments will not beguaranteed fast-track treatment.The NHS Constitution willguarantee the legal rights ofpatients, wherever they live,to all treatments and drugsapproved by NICE for use inthe NHS. We will continueto improve the process ofapproving new drugs andtreatments so that these can bemade available to NHS patientsmore quickly. We will ensureall leading drugs availableinternationally are assessedby NICE and those whichare deemed effective will beavailable within six months ofreferral.We will establish a newNational Care Service workingin partnership with the NHSto transform the way care isprovided to the elderly anddisabled people.Safety and cleanlinessWe will ensure all hospitalsare clean and safe for bothpatients and staff. More than3,000 matrons across the NHSwill have the power to managewards, order deep cleaning,and report problems directlyto hospital boards. Everypatient who comes into anNHS hospital will be screenedfor MRSA. We will establishnational standards of infectioncontrol that get tougher everyyear and which every hospitaland ward must meet. The safetyregulator will have the powerto close wards, impose finesor order cleaning wherevernecessary.
