Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228070009.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Health, Social Security and Pensions

The National Health Service

Britain, which has the world's fourth largest economy, deserves a first class National Health Service. In many respects our NHS works well in providing excellent care at a lower cost compared with systems in other countries, thanks to the doctors, nurses and other health professionals who work immensely hard to maintain standards. But problems arise because of management methods that are too centralised, cumbersome and bureaucratic. Moreover the system requires additional - but properly managed - financial support, to bring a genuine reduction in waiting lists, and to provide for an ageing population and the development of new drugs and treatments.

The UKIP believes that hospitals should reintroduce proven, traditional management structures. Under present arrangements, responsibility has become fragmented, with different individuals responsible for the various aspects of care. Conflicts arise because of the differing objectives of administrators and those responsible for treatment. The UKIP favours a return to the 'matron' system where a single manager is responsible for all 'hotel services' and 'caring' functions. This change will go a long way towards addressing the current problems of hospital infection and clinical malpractice.

Nursing must be seen as a rewarding career with good pay and prospects. Salaries must be increased to attract high calibre nurses - and, crucially, to retain them in the Health Service, in particular by extending salary scales to reward proficiency and experience. With regard to training, we believe that the pursuit of increasingly academic qualifications for hospital workers should be reconsidered, with more emphasis placed on practical competence. Freedom from the EU will allow more scope to make up the current shortfall in NHS staff levels by recruiting suitable applicants from other countries.

Links between NHS Trusts and their local communities are crucial to first class health care. Governing bodies should be more accountable to the communities they serve. Effective reform depends on peeling away the layers of bureaucracy that obstruct the NHS and impede the delivery of patient care. Patients should be treated as individuals, not mere statistics, and should be given as much consideration and choice as possible. We believe that money should be spent on treating patients, not on management consultants, and politically-correct excesses. It is a disgrace that part of the NHS budget is being spent on 'preparation' for the euro. The UKIP has no ideological bias against the private sector, which we regard as an essential part of the nation's health provision.

The UKIP shares the widespread public alarm about the impersonal and bureaucratic nature of social service provision. This can lead to a patronising, dictatorial approach to communities, and at worst to acts of tragic incompetence and injustice. Britain has many first-class social workers, but the system they work in takes responsibility away from local communities and takes little account of individual needs. The UKIP is determined to review social service provision so that it is more accountable and less doctrinaire. Training and working practices for social workers will be reviewed so that there is less emphasis on 'political correctness', and more emphasis on solving practical problems for individuals and communities.

In other words, the UKIP supports a return to the original principles of the NHS: a health care system that serves local communities and responds to people's needs. We want a health service with decentralised management and a minimum of red-tape, and a health service that enables doctors, nurses and other health workers to re-establish the respect they deserve. The UKIP promotes the ethos of public service, and deplores its erosion by successive Tory and Labour governments.

