Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040080.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Rwandans, Namibians and Mozambicans Can Vote in British Elections
March 31, 2010

rwanda01

Citizens of Rwanda, Namibia and Mozambique who are resident in Britain, or who have any type of leave to remain here, are being encouraged to register and vote in the forthcoming British election.

The shocking state of affairs, which has existed for several years through the Commonwealth organisation, has been highlighted once again with an appeal on the Swindon Borough Council for Rwandan nationals to register and vote.

In a section on that boroughs website, titled New Electoral Qualification Rules for Rwandan Citizens, potential voters from sub-Saharan Africa are informed as follows:

All Rwandan citizens who are resident in Great Britain and have any type of leave to remain in the United Kingdom now qualify for electoral registration.

Applications for registration from such citizens can now be accepted, and all successful applicants will be added to the register in the same way as all other qualifying Commonwealth citizens.

Traditionally, Commonwealth members were all supposed to have been ex-British colonial nations. Even today, the Commonwealths constitution states that new members must as a general rule have a direct constitutional link to an existing member.

These Commonwealth nations have also been given preference and special privileges when it comes to immigration into Britain.

In the mad rush to destroy any vestige of British identity which has marked the last two Labour and Tory regimes, the rule about being a former British colony has been abandoned.

The first Commonwealth member to be admitted without having any constitutional link to the British Empire or a Commonwealth member was Namibia (the former German and then South African colony of South West Africa) which joined in 1990.

Next to join was Mozambique in 1995. This east African nation was a former Portuguese colony.

Next on the list was the central African state of Rwanda which joined the Commonwealth in 2009. Rwanda was formerly a Belgian trust territory that had been a German colony until World War I.

In addition, applications are currently being considered by Algeria and Madagascar to join the Commonwealth. Neither of these nations were British colonies or possessions. In 2006, Commonwealth Secretary-General Don McKinnon said Israel and Palestine could join the commonwealth as well, if they were to apply.

The British National Party has no objection to international cooperation amongst nations for the common good.

However, the ridiculous situation where foreign nationals are eligible to vote in British elections is clearly a perversion of the democratic process and needs to be brought to an immediate halt.

Posted in National News | Comments (129)

