Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228010019.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

Building a Sustainable Economy

Liberal Democrats aim to build an economy which is not only competitive and enterprising but also environmentally sustainable, leaving future generations a wealth inheritance - of knowledge, technology, capital and environmental assets - at least as great as that inherited by the current generation.

Our proposals are:

    A better method of measuring economic progress. The conventional target of growth in GDP is apoor indicator of progress. We will modify GDP by incorporating measurements of pollution and resource depletion to create a figure for sustainable national income. We will also use indicators of social and personal quality of life such as changes to life expectancy, literacy rates and educational attainments to give a better measure of progress. The Prime Minister will present an annual report on changes in these indicators to Parliament.
    A system of environmental incentives and penalties. We will make available, grants and subsidies for environmentally friendly activities, such as home insulation, and to help individuals and industry adjust to our new stricter standards for pollution control We will penalise activities which harm the environment or deplete stocks of raw materials through taxation, so that prices reflect the damage they do. Our new Energy Tax is this manifesto's key proposal in this area. The revenue raised will be used to reduce other taxes such as VAT.
    Enable consumers to identify and choose sustainable products. We will introduce new product labels, showing information such as energy consumption during use and the environmental impact of the production process. We will introduce strict standards of life expectancy for consumer durables and encourage deposit-refund schemes. We will improve recycling and waste-disposal systems. We will encourage environmental audits for companies, showing the environmental impact of their activities.

