Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228030003.txt

Party Manifesto: SNP (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

Your vote on May 6th is important. Our nation needs a strong team of Scottish MPs working for our communities in the House of Commons. SNP MPs who will be local and national champions - working hard for people in all parts of Scotland.
We  need national champions who will stand up for Scotland’s interests  and oppose the London parties’ agenda of cuts that will be so damaging  to Scotland’s recovery and vital local services. The Labour Party now threatens cuts that will be ‘deeper and tougher’  than under Margaret Thatcher and the Tories plan an additional £1  billion cut on Scotland each year by ripping up the current funding deal  without the consent of the Scottish Government or Scottish people. The Tory and Labour agenda is effectively the same – the wrong cuts at the wrong time. Their actions will threaten recovery and cost Scottish jobs. Scotland needs SNP MPs in the House of Commons who can make sure our nation is protected. and we need local champions, because at the moment Westminster isn’t working for the communities and people of Scotland. The system is failing our nation. every SNP candidate will sign a pledge of accessibility, accountability and openness – it will be their Community Commitment. It will be their guarantee - their contract with the voters - and it will set the standard for their work on behalf of the people they represent. It will include guarantees on publication of expenses, on regular constituency surgeries and consultation with voters and community groups. The London parties are part of the same metropolitan political machine – a machine that leaves the ordinary men and women of our country on the outside. at this election we don’t need more of the same. Instead we can choose strong local champions. SNP candidates who will stand up for local interests and work to protect vital local services. SNP MPs will take forward the issues that matter most in local communities, whether that is creating jobs, securing lower fuel prices, protecting local post offices or ensuring safety barriers are installed on level crossings. SNP MPs will make the case for a fairer voting system and for reform of Westminster expenses so that it matches the higher standards of the Scottish Parliament. The more SNP MPs elected, the stronger Scotland’s voice will be in the House of Commons and the better we can protect Scotland’s people and Scotland’s interests. We are the only Party that will put Scottish interests first. SNP MPs will provide strong local representation – working for Scotland and working for you.
