Text ID:
uk_pm_el_83_228020015.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 1983
-------------------------------------

The right to health care

The creation of the National Health Service is one of the greatest achievements of the Labour Party. It now faces a double threat from the Tories: a lack of resources for decent health care; and the active encouragement of private practice. Labour will act to defend the basic principles of the service. We will ensure that it is free at the point of use and funded out of taxation, and that priority depends on medical need not ability to pay.

To meet rising costs due to improved medical technology and the age composition of the population, and to allow for a general expansion of our under-funded health services, we shall increase health service expenditure by 3 per cent per annum in real terms. We will also seek a fairer distribution of these resources at both regional and district level. Since the election, prescription charges have increased from 20p to £1.40 per item. Labour will phase out health charges. We shall also ensure that NHS staff receive a fair reward for their work and dedication; and we will discuss with the TUC new arrangements for pay determination and the resolution of disputes.

Our overriding aim will be to reduce inequalities in standards of health care for all who need it. We will:

    Give greater emphasis to prevention, both within the health and personal social services. We will come forward with proposals to help prevent accidents and disease, including action on advertising.
    Give priority to improving our primary health care services, especially in the inner cities.
    Continue to improve the ante-natal and maternity services and develop our child health services; and we will respect the wishes of women in child birth.
    Introduce an independent complaints system in both hospital and family practitioner services.
    Recognise the importance of community health councils and ensure that they have the power and facilities to represent fully the consumer point of view.
    Abolish the special charges for overseas visitors, and end passport checks.
    Take a major public stake in the pharmaceutical industry - and ensure that the drugs available are safe, effective and economic. 

The present expansion in private medicine is a serious threat to our priorities in health care. We will not allow the development of a two-tier health service, where the rich can jump the queue. We shall remove private practice from the NHS and take into the NHS those parts of the profit-making private sector which can be put to good use. We shall also stop public subsidies to the private sector and prevent it expanding further. We will give proper recognition to those consultants who make a full-time commitment to the NHS; and we will provide incentives to those choosing to work in under-doctored areas and specialities.

While continuing to defend and respect the absolute right of individual conscience, we will improve NHS facilities for family planning and abortion, including counselling and day-care; and we will remove barriers to the implementation of the existing right of choice for women in the termination of a pregnancy.

Personal social services

Personal social services - such as childcare, home helps, meals on wheels and residential and day care for the elderly and handicapped, are a vital part of our welfare state. And it is those who are most vulnerable in our society who depend most upon them.

The Tory cuts in the social services have hit women hardest. They have meant lost jobs for many women and a loss of support for the elderly and disabled, thus forcing women to stay at home as unpaid carers. A major improvement in personal social services will be necessary, not only to raise the standard of living of those who depend upon them, but also to give women an equal right to work. Labour will reverse the Tory cuts, improve and expand services so that they can complement the much better community health services we shall provide. This will involve increasing spending by at least 4 per cent a year in real terms. We will:

    Increase joint finance and extend it to cover other agencies.
    Require social services departments to plan and develop services for children jointly with education and health authorities.
    Strengthen the Chronically Sick and Disabled Persons Act so that it provides a Charter of Rights for disabled people everywhere.
    Require local authorities to develop preventive services for children at risk.
    Give greater attention to the needs of ethnic minorities.
    Encourage the growth of local, independent advice and advocacy services. 

