
Schools honoured in the Pupil Premium Awards
25 March, 2015 @ 2:34 PM

Liberal Democrat Leader and Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg has awarded prizes to schools across the country in recognition of the work they are doing to close the gap between rich and poor children.

The Pupil Premium Awards recognise the success of these schools in helping their most disadvantaged pupils reach their full potential.

key_nick_children.jpg

Nick handed out the prizes worth up to £250,000 to the four national winners and 62 finalists at an awards ceremony in London.

The Pupil Premium provides schools with extra funding to help support their most disadvantaged pupils.

Schools can use the money to fund extra teacher support for pupils who need it most or send their disadvantaged pupils on educational visits that benefit their studies.

Results show the positive impact the Pupil Premium has had in raising the attainment of the most disadvantaged pupils and closing the gap between rich and poor children.

Nick said:

“It is a huge injustice that in 21st century Britain a child’s success or failure is often determined by their parents’ income or social class.  

“That’s why the Pupil Premium is so important.  This year alone we have provided £2.5 billion of funding to help almost 2 million youngsters go further.  And we are seeing results. If all Pupil Premium schools did as well as the very best, I hope we can see the attainment gap closed in the next decade.

 “This has been one of my proudest achievements in government and all of this year’s finalists are shining examples of how much can be achieved. 

"Through initiatives like these we can together build a fairer society for all, where every child’s achievement is determined by ability and not by the circumstances of their birth.”

Liberal Democrat Schools Minister David Laws added:

 “I am proud to congratulate the winners of this year’s Pupil Premium Awards, which recognise and reward our excellent schools and teachers who are making a real difference to the lives of disadvantaged pupils.

“The Pupil Premium Awards will raise aspirations by identifying the most innovative and effective use of the Pupil Premium in raising attainment. I hope all schools will learn from these excellent examples, so we can continue the vital progress we have made towards closing the attainment gap.

“The Pupil Premium is helping to build a fairer society for all, giving teachers the resources they need to ensure all pupils get the best possible start in life and can go on to achieve their full potential” 
