Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_050044.txt

Press Release from Party: Greens

Elect Greens to "challenge the economic stupidity of private finance initiatives and put a stop to UKs hidden debts

4 May 2010

The Green Party today called on voters to elect Green MPs to challenge the big three parties on one of modern Britain's biggest economic controversies - the "scandal of the private finance initiative" (PFI).

"Newly elected Green MPs will waste no time and spare no effort," said the Green Party today, "in tackling the leaders of the big three over their continued reliance on private finance initiatives to fund local schools and hospitals that should be publicly owned and publicly accountable - not primarily vehicles for private profit."

The three big parties, say the Greens, are committed to paying over 200 billion of taxpayers' money in "user charges" over the next 20 years to private businesses whose capital investment will have been less than 70 billion. The Green Party today said "this is a waste of taxpayer money that puts private shareholders' interests before the public's."

 

Green Party leader Caroline Lucas, who has been tipped by pollsters YouGov and ICM to win the Brighton Pavilion seat where she is currently the bookies' favourite, said today:

"As with the billions spent on bank bail-outs, the Labour government's misguided PFI obsession has shown that its first concerns are cosying up to private business and concealing spending off the budget sheets, rather than providing efficient, high quality and publicly-owned services in the most cost effective way."

Recent media reports have suggested that in Sussex alone the taxpayer will be forced to pay 330million for work at the Great Alexandra and Graylingwell hospitals that cost 58million to private business - a return for the PFI companies of over 500%.

In Brighton some schools were forced to pay to use their own buildings out of hours and had little control over catering arrangements.

In some cases, such as with the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital, the rent paid to the company involved is two and half times as much as the rent under a publicly financed service. This higher rent is payable to the end of the contract in 2037.

"This method of privatising profit but nationalising loss is no way to run a country. First we get businesses to build schools and hospitals and then we pay them several times over for the privilege. It's like buying a house on a credit card, which sums this government up," added Ms Lucas.

"The benefit for Gordon Brown and the Labour government has been that PFIs allowed them to hide much of the repayment debts off-balance', and so pretend to keep to their stringent public sector borrowing targets. The upshot of this fiscal trickery is that the true costs of PFI will not be known until well into the 2030s, as little quantative comparison can be made between public and private provision until all commercially sensitive information' is published and analysed.

"The Green Party opposes private financing schemes, and calls for public funds to be used to build all new hospitals, schools and other public service infrastructure. If the renegotiation of existing privatised contracts is impossible, the government should at least aim to bring all affected facilities back into public ownership as soon as possible."

PFI Factfile:

    Governments can borrow more easily and at lower rates of interest than private companies. Private companies borrow the money to build schools and hospitals at higher rates of interest and then take a profit out of it - pushing costs to between 2-5% above that of the public sector.

    As PFI contracts usually include punitive cancellation clauses, rents will have to be paid even when hospitals and schools are no longer required in a specific area. To save money, costs will be cut elsewhere and it will be the state-run services that suffer.

    PFIs can have a lifetime of 30 years. This means that there is no down side for businesses, whose first interest is profit. If it all goes wrong, it is the tax payer who will pick up the bill.

Notes:

More information:
* Unison report "Reclaiming the Initiative - putting the public back into PFI" (June 2009): http://www.unison.org.uk/acrobat/18461.pdf.

* Brighton Argus article, (12 February 2010): http://www.theargus.co.uk/news/5004805.Huge_costs_of_Sussex_hospital_PFI_deals_revealed/.

* Guardian report "Public Costs, Private Gains" (19 March 2010) by Chris Edwards, Senior Fellow of International Development at University of East Anglia responding to the House of Lords Economic Affairs Committee's report on PFI.

* Public Costs, Private Gains: http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2010/mar/19/pfi-hospitals-private-finance-projects.

* House of Lords Economic Affairs Committee report: http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/ld/ldeconaf.htm.

* The European Centre for Social Justice has said that: "The true cost of individual PFI/PPPs will not be known for 25-35 years when the first contracts terminate. Then all social welfare costs and benefits can be fully assessed. Government and business interests appear very concerned about the intergenerational burden of social policy commitments yet sign up to PFI/PPP projects with little regard for the longer-term public cost of PFI/PPPs."


