Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_020017.txt

Press Release from Party: Lab

5.4.2010



Tory election headlines are being achieved at the cost of economic credibility - Alexander

douglas alexanderDouglas Alexander MP, Labours General Election Coordinator, in a briefing to Labour Party campaign staff and volunteers today said if David Cameron thinks the message matters more than the money  hes wrong.

He said: This election is about the economy. Its about keeping the wolf from the door for millions of families. Its about securing the recovery responsibly and cutting the deficit fairly  in a way that protects frontline services."

Addressing an all staff meeting at the campaigns Victoria Street headquarters today he said Tory headlines in recent days were being won at the cost of economic credibility.

Douglas Alexander said:

"For David Cameron to say that the 'message matters more than the money' reveals much more than he realised. By putting short-term political messaging ahead of the long-term needs of the economy, the Tories are acting irresponsibly  they are risking the recovery and it is ordinary British families who would the pay the price. Tory election headlines are being achieved at the cost of economic credibility.

"Theres no doubt that the Tory messaging has got headlines in recent weeks  they started the year promising austerity and tough action on the deficit but having come under pressure they have now changed their tactics, with a series of improbable rabbits out of seemingly bottomless hats on National Insurance, cancer drugs, and now marriage tax allowance.

"In the last week, the Tories have promised to cut taxes for employers, for employees, for married couples, and even the NHS; theyve promised new cancer drugs for anyone who wants them and a new programme to create an army of community activists; and all at the same time as they have kept up their rhetoric on cutting the deficit faster and deeper than Labour.

"The words are cheap but the cost to the British people will be staggering. In the short term this fanciful slue of promises may have helped them tactically, but it has weakened them strategically ahead of the campaign commencing.

"Their headlines undermine their claims not just on cutting the deficit, but on securing the recovery."

