Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228070012.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

8 Pensions
Britain’s pensioners deserve better. They aresuffering not just from complexity in benefitsand EU-driven energy price rises but also fromthe great indignity of means testing. Meanwhilethe UK is staring into a pensions black hole createdby Labour’s huge expansion of the publicsector and that party’s vicious removal of dividendtax credits for private pensions. Withouturgent redress, Britain will be bankrupted by acommitment it cannot hope to honour. UKIP will:· Simplify pensions and remove unnecessaryand degrading means testing for our seniorcitizens. We will roll existing state pensions,Pensions Credit and the Winter Fuel Allowanceinto a flat-rate, non-means tested, non-contributoryand non-taxable Citizen’s Pension worthat least £130 a week for all pensioners aged 65and over. There will be no reductions for thosewith personal savings or a private pension.People whose existing entitlement to state orpublic sector pension is more than £130 a weekwill continue to receive the higher amount. TheCitizen’s Pension will be payable to all UK citizens,including those who have worked abroad· Target pension contributions’ tax relief at low andaverage earners, reducing the annual limit fortax-relievable pension contributions to £10,000gross from the current £255,000 (compensatingfor higher earners’ flat tax advantages)· Reinstate the dividend tax credit at 20%· Bring generous unfunded public sector finalsalary pensions back into line with typical privatepension provision. Calculations show a fund ofaround £1,000 billion is required to cover thefuture liabilities of public sector schemes. Thisis simply unsustainable. UKIP will freeze publicsector pensions, reflecting today’s challengingeconomic conditions· Scrap the costly and counter-productivestatutory Pension Protection Fund and NationalPensions Savings Scheme· Save the UK from a potentially ruinouspensions burden by leaving the EU and itsenforced common pensions pot. While the UKhas 74% of its GDP invested in UK private pensions,Germany has a mere 5.8% and France5.6%. Further integration of the UK into the EU,through Euro membership for example, wouldturn this into a pensions tax time bombDownload the full Pensions policy from thePolicies section of www.ukip.org

