Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060042.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

Promote our national interest | a liberal conservative foreign policy

A liberal Conservative foreign policy
We have great national assets and advantages to help us make the most of the opportunities weface and to deal with challenges. We will engage positively with the world to deepen alliances andbuild new partnerships. We will help reform international institutions, help those in need, and playour part in tackling climate change and the proliferation of military nuclear technology.
A Conservative government’s approachto foreign affairs will be based on liberalConservative principles. Liberal, becauseBritain must be open and engaged withthe world, supporting human rights andchampioning the cause of democracy andthe rule of law at every opportunity. ButConservative, because our policy must behard-headed and practical, dealing with theworld as it is and not as we wish it were.Our approach to foreign affairs is based on abelief in freedom, human rights and democracy.We are sceptical about grand utopian schemes toremake the world. We will work patiently withthe grain of other societies, but we will alwayssupport liberal values because they provide thefoundations for stability and prosperity.Protecting Britain’s enlightened nationalinterest requires global engagement. We willbe safer if our values are strongly upheld andwidely respected in the world. Our nationalidentity is bound up in our historic globalrole as an outward-looking nation, givinggenerously to developing countries, andproviding a safe haven to genuine refugees.
It is not in our character to have a foreign policywithout a conscience or to turn our back on themillions who live in poverty and conflict.Promote our enlightenednational interestA Conservative government will championa distinctive British foreign policy. We willrenew and reinforce our engagement with therest of the world and build up British influenceby deepening our alliances beyond Europe andthe United States, not only diplomatically but inculture, education, commerce and security.A Conservative government will always speakup for freedom and human rights. Torture isunacceptable and abhorrent, and we will nevercondone it.We will support humanitarian interventionwhen it is practical and necessary, whileworking with other countries to prevent conflictarising.Promoting Britain’s interests and values meansdeveloping and strengthening our alliances and
reforming international institutions. To achievethese goals, we will:• work to establish a new special relationshipwith India, the world’s largest democracy;• seek closer engagement with China whilestanding firm on human rights;• elevate our relationships with many friendlynations, including in the Middle East, aswell as North Africa, South Asia and LatinAmerica;• press to keep the EU’s doors open to thosecountries, including Turkey, that wish to join,conditional on the rigorous application of theaccession criteria;• support permanent seats on the UnitedNations Security Council for Japan, India,Germany, Brazil and African representation;and,• strengthen the Commonwealth as a focusfor promoting democratic values anddevelopment.We will work with our allies across the worldto prevent conflict and secure peace. We willmaintain a strong, close and frank relationshipwith the United States. We will work closelywith other European countries to establish acommon approach to common problems, suchas climate change. We will be committed toNATO as the ultimate guarantor of Europe’ssecurity. To ensure our global security further,we will:• work towards greater stability in Afghanistanand Pakistan;• support concerted international effortsto prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclearweapon;• support a two-state solution to the MiddleEast Peace Process;• promote stability in the Western Balkans;• always be ready to assist Cypriots in theirefforts to agree a just, balanced and lastingsettlement to reunite their island; and,• play our part in efforts to make the worldsafer from the dangers of nuclear weaponsand nuclear proliferation.

