Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030129.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

Time to get real on Trident
Fri, 23/04/2010 - 11:27

SNP Defence Spokesman and Westminster leader Angus Robertson, was today joined at a joint press conference in London by Plaid Cymrus Adam Price as the parties set out their outright opposition to the Trident nuclear weapons system  and said that only Plaid Cymru and the SNP offer a genuine alternative to the London parties and their pro-Trident stances.

Plaid and the SNP unveiled also unveiled a viral poster  A Future Feared By All.

Mr Robertson said:

Only the SNP in Scotland and Plaid Cymru in Wales offer a genuine alternative to the London parties.

Unlike Labour, Tory and the Lib Dems, we want to ditch the obscenely expensive and morally inexcusable nuclear weapons system which currently lurks in the Clyde completely.

Renewing the Trident nuclear weapons system will cost 100bn over the next 20 years. The London parties need to get real. It cannot be right that we proceed with its procurement whilst simultaneously cutting funding for schools, hospitals and frontline services and putting the recovery of our nations at risk.

"Working with our colleagues in Plaid Cymru to achieve the objectives we set out on the 4 Wales, 4 Scotland agreement we will fight for the best deal for Scotland and Wales. At the top of that agenda is pushing the UK Government to junk Trident.

Commenting, Mr Price said:

The Cold War is long past and the world has changed but the mindset of the London parties is stuck on weapons of mass destruction. For Labour, the Tories and the Liberal Democrats, the question is not if we should be replacing the nuclear deterrent but how big the replacement should be.

The Liberal Democrats may paint themselves as a third option but the fact remains in this election, the choice is straight down the middle: voters can choose a party which wants to blow billions on nuclear weapons or a party who wants to see this cash invested in the things that matter.

"Only a vote for Plaid in Wales and the SNP in Scotland and at this forthcoming election is a real vote against nuclear weapons."
Filed under:

    Elections
    trident
    SNP


