Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228020003.txt

Party Manifesto: Labour (UK) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------


Ambitions for Britain.

Stretching the family budget, finding time for children as well as work, holding on to mutual respect, staying healthy when there can be danger even in the air we breathe. These are daily worries that people face. They are my concerns too. But, while there is always a market for people who say we are doomed, that all new ideas are bad ideas even as things improve, that we might as well curl up with our prejudices and shut the door on the world, I am an optimist. New Labour is ambitious for Britain?s future and is ready to lead. First, we will sustain economic stability and build deeper prosperity that reaches every region of the country. Skills, infrastructure, the technological revolution ? all are vital to raise British living standards faster. We will put as much energy into helping the seven million adults without basic skills as we did when tackling long-term unemployment through the New Deal. Second, we seek to achieve a renaissance of status and quality for public services and their staff. We will build on our success in primary schools to overhaul secondary schools; we will invest new resources and empower doctors and nurses to transform health services; and we will seek to extend the very best in culture and sport to all. Third, we seek to modernise the welfare state. The benefits system will be restructured around work; support for children and families through the tax and benefits system will be transformed; cash and services for pensioners will be radically improved. Fourth, we will strengthen our communities. We will reform the criminal justice system at every level so that criminals are caught, punished and rehabilitated. And because we know that without tackling the causes of crime we will never tackle crime, we will empower local communities by combining resources with responsibility. Fifth, we will turn our inner confidence to strength abroad, in Europe and beyond, to tackle global problems ? above all, environmental degradation and the shame of global poverty.
We will engage fully in Europe, help enlarge the European Union and make it more effective, and insist that the British people have the final say on any proposal to join the Euro. These ambitions are summarised in ten goals for 2010. They will never be achieved by government alone. We know it is people who ultimately change the country. Our partnership with the voluntary sector has steadily strengthened since 1997, as we learn from its diversity. We work with the private sector, drawing on its vitality. Countries only prosper on the basis of partnership ? between government, employers and their employees, and the voluntary sector. What Britain needs is an active, enabling state, not a nanny state, doing things with people not to them. So, while the Conservatives will spend most of this election telling you what their government cannot do, this manifesto sets out what our government can do. We know the power and value of markets, but we also know their limits. Now is the time to renew our civic and social institutions to deliver improvements in education, health, safety, transport and the environment.

Fighting for values, not just for election victory.
The Conservatives always look back.

In economic policy they promise to repeat the mistakes of the 1980s ? unaffordable tax cuts and spending cuts, followed by ballooning deficits, rising interest rates and the old cycle of boom and bust.
In social policy their renewed commitment to cuts and privatisation and to withdrawing the support helping to heal social division, is just a throwback to the 1980s.
In foreign policy they risk not just isolation but exit from the EU. Jobs, trade, investment depend on our membership of the European Union. The Conservative policy of opposing the enlargement of Europe in the Nice Treaty and their pledge to renegotiate the terms of Britain?s EU membership is dangerous and ill thought-out. Standing up for Britain means fighting for Britain?s interests in Europe, not leaving Europe ? which threatens our national interest. So the choice Britain faces today is starker than in 1997.
The Conservatives have swung further to the right. And, in government, Labour?s agenda has become increasingly bold and ambitious.
For many years, the Conservatives claimed to offer economic strength while Labour dominated social issues.
Many people found their head telling them to vote Tory, and their heart telling them to vote Labour.
Today, head and heart are coming together. New Labour is proving that it is only by using the talents of all that we get a healthy economy, and that it is only by giving a stake to all that we are a healthy society.
We have made our choice: stability not boom and bust; investment not cuts; engagement not isolationism; the many, not the few.
A lot done and a lot more to do with new Labour ? or a lot for you to lose under the Conservatives.
I deeply believe that, for Britain, the best is still to come.
So I ask you to continue on this journey with us. Together we can achieve so much more.
Prime Minister and Leader of the Labour Party
Better primary school results than ever before? now we focus on secondary schools More jobs, more dignity, more wealth. Tony Blair with construction workers in North Tyneside.


