Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228010009.txt

Party Manifesto: LibDem (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

your world. Britain mustwork together with our partnersabroad if we are to have thebest hope of meeting thechallenges the world faces.We believe in freedom, justice,prosperity and human rightsfor all and will do all we can towork towards a world wherethese hopes become reality.Above all, climate change isthe greatest challenge facingthis generation.

securing Britain’s future with global action
Liberal Democrats believe that Britain must work together with its partnersabroad if we are to have the best hope of meeting the challenges the worldfaces. We believe in freedom, justice, prosperity and human rights for all andwill do all we can to work towards a world where these hopes become reality.Never has there been such a need for global action. There are only a fewyears to take action to stop runaway climate change. The global recessionproved the need for better international regulation of the financial markets.New security threats are emerging, for which Britain’s armed forces arenot yet fully equipped, whilst terrorists and organised criminals exploitinternational networks. The challenge of tackling global poverty remains,with the Millennium Development Goals still far from being achieved. Andthe battle for human rights remains to be fought in many countries.Liberal Democrats will work through the European Union to deliver a globaldeal on climate change. We will transform the armed forces, meeting thenation’s obligations under the military covenant, and conducting a fulldefence review to ensure they are equipped for modern threats. We willpush for better global financial regulation. We will strive for global nucleardisarmament, showing leadership by committing not to replace the Tridentnuclear weapons system on a like-for-like basis. We will meet the UK’sobligations to the developing world by committing to spending 0.7 per centof GNI on aid. And we will put Britain at the heart of Europe, to ensure weuse our influence to achieve prosperity, security and opportunity for Britain.tackling climate changeClimate change is the greatest challenge facing this generation. LiberalDemocrats are unwavering in our commitment: runaway climate changemust be stopped, and politicians must follow the science in order to makethat happen.We will set a target for a zero-carbon Britain that doesn’t contribute at all toglobal warming – making the British economy carbon-neutral overall by 2050,reducing carbon emissions in the UK by over 40 per cent of 1990 levels by2020 as a step on the way.Our response to climate change will give the British people more secureenergy supplies, reduce air pollution and related health costs – and createthousands of new jobs.Liberal Democrats will:• Begin a ten-year programme of home insulation, offering a homeenergy improvement package of up to £10,000 per home, paid forby the savings from lower energy bills, and make sure every newhome is fully energy-efficient by improving building regulations.• Set a target for 40 per cent of UK electricity to come from clean,non-carbon-emitting sources by 2020, rising to 100 per cent by 2050,underpinned by guaranteed price support; and ensure that at leastthree-quarters of this new renewable energy comes from marine andoffshore sources.• Set out a clear renewables routemap to 2050, covering grid accessand investment in electricity networks, and develop new incentivesto promote renewable heat.• Transform the electricity networks into a dynamic electricity gridthat can better connect and integrate new, clean energy technologiesparticularly through the better use of sub-sea connections, leading tothe development of a European Supergrid.• Invest up to £400 million in refurbishing shipyards in the North of
England and Scotland so that they can manufacture offshore windturbines and other marine renewable energy equipment.• Launch an ‘Eco Cash-Back’ scheme, for one year only, which willgive you £400 if you install double glazing, replace an old boiler, orinstall micro-generation. If you choose micro-generation, you will beable to sell the energy back to the National Grid at a profit, with amore attractive feed-in tariff than under current government plans.• Set aside extra money for schools to improve the energy efficiencyof their buildings. They will pay back the loan over time from energysavings, creating a rolling fund to help insulate all public buildings.• Invest £140 million in a bus scrappage scheme that helps buscompanies to replace old polluting buses with new low-carbon onesand creates jobs.• Block any new coal-fi red power stations – the most polluting form ofpower generation – unless they are accompanied by the highest levelof carbon capture and storage facilities.• Reject a new generation of nuclear power stations; based on theevidence nuclear is a far more expensive way of reducing carbonemissions than promoting energy conservation and renewable energy.• Improve energy efficiency in the commercial and public sectors, bystrengthening the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy EfficiencyScheme and requiring companies and government departments toreport on their energy use and set targets for reducing it. We will seta 30 per cent energy efficiency improvement target for 2020, andwill commit the government to the goals of the 10:10 campaign asa first step.

leading the fight against climate changeLiberal Democrats are committed to securing a legally binding globalagreement on limiting the increase in global temperatures to below 1.7degrees Celsius. We believe that such an agreement must be basedon reducing emissions overall, while equalising emissions between thedeveloped and developing worlds – the principle of contraction andconvergence. Strong and credible EU ambition, with effective UK leadership,are essential for achieving a global agreement, so that total greenhousegas emissions peak no later than 2015. Liberal Democrats will work withinEurope and internationally to give renewed urgency to global efforts tocombat climate change.We will press the EU to:• Promote the transition to a low-carbon economy in Europe, bymoving unilaterally and immediately to an EU emissions reductiontarget of 30 per cent by 2020, adopting new long-term targetsand policies for clean energy and energy efficiency; and expandinvestment in energy technology innovation, within Europe andinternationally.• Boost investment in clean energy by reforming the EU emissionstrading scheme – bringing in a tighter cap on emissions, auctioningas many allowances as possible, and encouraging other Europeancountries to increase the use of reserve prices in allowance auctions.• Engage with major emitters and deepen diplomatic co-operationbetween the EU and emerging economies and developing countries,provide enhanced financial support for low-carbon solutions and leadinternational efforts to promote the transfer of technologies that willhelp to tackle climate change.
• Work for the adoption of ‘quick win’ measures that could beinitiated within the next few years such as reducing the use ofhydrofluorocarbons (HFCs).At the UN level, we will support the provision of UN Adaptation Funds fordeveloping countries, financed from international emissions markets, such asa cap-and-trade system for international emissions from aviation and shipping.protecting the global environmentHumans are living beyond the ability of the planet to support life; more than60 per cent of the basic ecosystems that support life on Earth are beingdegraded or used unsustainably. Co-ordinated international action andeffective global institutions are necessary to help create a sustainable futureand improve the quality of life of all the world’s citizens.Liberal Democrats will:• Work through the EU to make sure that the environment is fullyintegrated into the objectives of international institutions such as theWorld Bank, International Monetary Fund and World Trade Organisation.• Work to increase the resourcing of the UN Environment Programmeand improve the enforcement of international environmental treaties.• Protect the world’s forests, not only to reduce carbon emissions butalso to preserve this crucial reservoir of biodiversity. We will argue foran international target of zero net deforestation by 2020; support anew system of payments to developing countries to enable them toreduce deforestation; and adopt at EU – or, if necessary, at UK – levela new law making it illegal to import or possess timber producedillegally in foreign countries.
• Work with other countries to develop an international labelling systemfor the environmental impact of products, helping consumers choosethose with the least impact on resource use and pollution.meeting Britain’s obligations to the developingworldLiberal Democrats are committed to working towards a world free frompoverty, inequality and injustice and meeting the Millennium DevelopmentGoals is a vital first step. But beyond this we will also ensure that action istaken to allow developing nations to grow and to prevent them sufferingunfairly the effects of climate change inflicted by developed countries.Liberal Democrats will:• Increase the UK’s aid budget to reach the UN target of 0.7 per centof GNI by 2013 and enshrine that target in law. We will hold the G8 toits Gleneagles pledges on aid, including on the 0.7 per cent target.• Work with other countries to establish new sources of developmentfinancing, including bringing forward urgent proposals for a financialtransaction tax and a cap-and-trade system for carbon emissionsfrom aviation and shipping.• Support reform of the global financial institutions such as the WorldBank and IMF.• Ban banks from facilitating the transfer of funds obtained bycorruption. We will crack down on tax havens which allow individualsand corporations to avoid paying taxes to developing countries.• Ensure that the developing world is prepared to deal with theconsequences of a changing climate. We will ensure that adaptationand mitigation measures are financed by industrialised nations on topof existing aid commitments.• Prioritise health and education programmes which aim to promotegender equality, reduce maternal and infant mortality, and restrict thespread of major diseases like HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria. We will focuseffort on supplying basic needs like clean water.• Support a global fund for social protection to help developingcountries build viable welfare systems.• Push for a renewed international effort on debt and support 100per cent cancellation of the unpayable debts of the world’s poorestcountries. We will also take measures against ‘vulture funds’ andlobby for similar action at international level.equipping Britain’s armed forces for the21st centuryModern armed forces face a series of complex challenges. Alongsidefighting conventional wars, they seek to protect us from the threats ofterrorism, maintain the peace, undertake conflict prevention and helpfacilitate development in poorer nations.The world has changed enormously since the end of the Cold War. Newthreats are emerging and yet Britain’s armed forces remain largely equippedto fight the old ones. The Iraq War, and allegations over British complicityin torture and in secret ‘rendition’ flights of terrorist suspects, highlight thedangers of a subservient relationship with the United States that neglectsBritain’s core values and interests.

The threats of tomorrow are likely to be driven by failed states, massmigration, climate change and regional instability. So we will ensure thattaxpayers’ money is spent more effectively on equipping the forces forthe tasks of the future, not old Cold War threats. We will:• Hold an immediate Strategic Security and Defence Review (SSDR)to ensure that Britain deploys its resources to face the most seriousthreats to its citizens’ security and well-being, including non-militarychallenges such as climate change.• With strong Treasury involvement, review all major defenceprocurement projects through the SSDR to ensure money is beingspent effectively. We will not purchase tranche 3B of the Eurofighter.• Rule out the like-for-like replacement of the Trident nuclear weaponssystem. At a cost of £100 billion over a lifetime it is unaffordable, andBritain’s security would be better served by alternatives. We supportmultilateral nuclear disarmament and will ensure that the UK plays aproactive role in the arms reduction talks starting later this year.• Reinvigorate Franco-British and wider European defence co-operationto ensure procurement costs are kept low.a fair deal for our service personnelThe brave men and women of Britain’s armed forces are the most preciousmilitary asset we have. They must be treated fairly, with pay and conditionsthat reflect their outstanding commitment to this country, and properly valuedand supported after they leave the services.Liberal Democrats will put the forces’ welfare first. We will:• Give a pay rise to the lower ranks so that their pay is brought into linewith the starting salary of their emergency services counterparts.• Double the rate of modernisation of forces’ family homes to ensurethey are fi t for heroes.While it is necessary to find resources to support the troops properly, at thesame time fairness requires that we make savings where possible within thedefence budget as a whole. We will reduce the number of civilian staff in theMinistry of Defence and reduce numbers of top brass officers.

putting Britain at the heart of Europe
Liberal Democrats believe that European co-operation is the best way forBritain to be strong, safe and influential in the future. We will ensure thatBritain maximises its influence through a strong and positive commitment.But just because Europe is essential, that doesn’t mean the EuropeanUnion is perfect. We will continue to campaign for improved accountability,efficiency and effectiveness. Working together, the member states of theEU have a better chance of managing the impacts of globalisation, suchas cross-border crime and environmental pollution.Liberal Democrats will:• Work with Britain’s European neighbours to create thousands ofnew jobs by breaking down trade barriers and boosting support forgreen jobs.• Work through the European Union for stricter international regulationof financial services and banking.• Keep Britain part of international crime-fighting measures suchas the European Arrest Warrant, European Police Office (Europol),Eurojust, and the European Criminal Records Information System,while ensuring high standards of justice.• Keep the pressure on for reform of agricultural subsidies sothat farmers, consumers and taxpayers get a fair deal, and theenvironment is protected.• Fight to stop MEPs having to travel to the Strasbourg Parliamentevery month, wasting €200 million a year.• Campaign for continuing reform of the EU budget so that money isspent only on the things the EU really needs to do.The European Union has evolved significantly since the last public voteon membership over thirty years ago. Liberal Democrats therefore remaincommitted to an in/out referendum the next time a British government signsup for fundamental change in the relationship between the UK and the EU.We believe that it is in Britain’s long-term interest to be part of the euro.But Britain should only join when the economic conditions are right, and inthe present economic situation, they are not. Britain should join the euro onlyif that decision were supported by the people of Britain in a referendum.standing up for liberal values around the worldLiberal Democrats will put British values of fairness and the rule of lawback at the heart of our foreign policy. British people used to be proud ofwhat our country stood for. But Britain’s reputation has been damaged byunscrupulous arms deals with dictators, allegations of involvement in torture,and of course the disastrous and illegal invasion of Iraq. We will also givegreater support to conflict prevention – which saves money and saves lives.We will:• Make the EU use its collective weight effectively in other areas offoreign policy. Britain can have a far stronger voice on relations withRussia, China, Iran and the Middle East peace process when it joinswith the rest of Europe.• Be critical supporters of the Afghanistan mission. The military surgemust be accompanied by a strategy to ensure a more legitimategovernment, tackle corruption and win over moderate elements in
the insurgency. We will continue to demand a strategy that involvesother players in the region. We believe that a successful strategy willstabilise Afghanistan enough to allow British troops to come homeduring the next Parliament.• Support the establishment of an International Arms Trade Treatyto limit the sale of arms to dangerous regimes and work for a fullinternational ban on cluster munitions. We will ensure that Britisharms are not sold to states that would use them for internalrepression. We will require arms brokers to register under a codeof conduct and revoke the licences of those who break the code.• Support action by the international community to stop Iran obtainingnuclear weapons. We would follow a diplomatic route of activeengagement, and are ready to back targeted sanctions, but weoppose military action against Iran and believe those calling for suchaction undermine the growing reform movement in Iran.• Hold a full judicial inquiry into allegations of British complicity intorture and state kidnapping as part of a process to restore Britain’sreputation for decency and fairness.• Remain committed to the search for a peaceful resolution of theIsraeli-Palestinian conflict. A sustainable solution can be reached inthe context of two separate Israeli and Palestinian states, mutuallyrecognised and internationally accepted within borders which aresecure and based on the situation before the 1967 conflict. Wecondemn disproportionate force used by all sides. We believeBritain and the EU must put pressure on Israel and Egypt to endthe blockade of Gaza.

