Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030067.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

Alex Salmond welcomes 6 May poll
Tue, 06/04/2010 - 11:06

SNP Leader and Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond took to the streets
on  Day One of the General Election campaign, to meet voters in one of
the SNP's top targets.  

Across the country, the SNP is to deliver half a million "MORE NATS
LESS CUTS" campaign postcards by 6pm tonight, in time for the evening
news bulletins.  

The SNP also highlighted the calling of the
election on the anniversary of  the Declaration of Arbroath  Scotlands
Declaration of Independence, a key issue in the campaign.  

Visiting Portobello in the Edinburgh East constituency, Mr Salmond
said:

"At this election, Scottish voters can elect local
and national champions.  SNP MPs who will make sure Scotland's
communities can't be ignored.

"Scotland needs champions now more than ever. The London parties
offer  the same agenda - they are part of the same metropolitan,
political machine.  

The London  parties have blown the gaff on
their plans for Scotland.   By their own admission, Labour would cut
tougher and deeper than Thatcher, and the Tories are planning
a  special cut for Scotland despite being funded by Scottish resources,
blowing their  respect agenda away.

"The SNP are going into this campaign with a clear message for
Scottish voters: more votes means more Nats, and more Nats means less
cuts. The Westminster system is discredited, and only  SNP champions can
protect and promote Scotlands interests.  

We can protect jobs, recovery and important local services and
instead cut  things like the 100,000 million replacement for Trident,
identity cards, the  House of Lords or the Scotland Office.

And
in calling the election on the anniversary of the Declaration of
Arbroath, Scotlands declaration of  independence, Labour have ensured
that the London parties refusal to allow Scotlands  voters a say over
their countrys future will be an issue SNP champions will  bring to the
fore.

"On polling day the people of Scotland can do more than just vote
for a politician, they can elect a local champion with the SNP.

