Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228070017.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

13 Housing &Planning
UKIP believes there is a lack of democratic decision making in current planning. Local concerns are too easily overridden by remote, unaccountable and undemocratic planning bodies and by major developers with large legal chequebooks, such as supermarkets. Major planning schemes should not be overseen by a remote inspector, Government Minister or quango. Nor should major decisions on new housing and development be made by EU bureaucrats and their regional agents. UKIP will:· Influence housing demand, not justsupply. Only by leaving the EU can Britain regain control of its borders and control immigration. Migrationwatch figures show that 86% of new UK housing - or approximately 260 homes a day - is needed for immigrants. By controlling immigration, large areas of British countryside will not need to be destroyed by house building· Incentivise the use of approximately 800,000 empty homes· Abolish EU-inspired Regional Spacial Strategies and regional government bodies such as
unelected Regional Development Agencies and Assemblies· Abolish the new Infrastructure PlanningCommission, which will have the power to override serious local democratic objections to planning proposals, including wind farms· Introduce binding local referenda for major local schemes such as the building of new supermarkets or the Chelsea Barracks regeneration. Remote planning appeals will not be able to override the local vote· Return to county and district plans, and encourage major public participation· Introduce management of Green Belt land by elected ‘Green Belt Conservators’, like National Park managers, to vigorously conserve the environment while allowing appropriate economic activity, amenities and housing supply· Scrap hidden development taxes such as Section 106 ‘community bribes’ and requirements for social housing in bigger developments. All development proposals should stand or fall on their own merits· Complement the national listing scheme with a formal local listing scheme, at council level, that will protect buildings that are of valuelocally, but not necessarily nationally· Ensure refurbishment of listed buildings, and buildings in conservation areas, is exempt from UKIP’s ‘Local Sales Tax’, which will replace VAT. (See ‘Tax, Budget & Regulation’, above)· Scrap the unnecessary and wastefulEU-inspired Home Information Packs (HIPs)· Encourage local councils to build more social housing by designating areas for such housing and allowing bond issues to fund construction· Stop charging business rates on empty premises. This will help prevent wasteful demolition or deliberate property damage to avoid ratesDownload the full Housing and Planning policy from the Policies section of www.ukip.org

