Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040136.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


EU Treaty: Tory Liars Scrape Bottom of the Hypocrisy Barrel
April 13, 2010

david-cameron-LIARJust when the public thought David Cameron couldnt get any more hypocritical over his U-turn on the EU Treaty, he has. The Tory leader has announced that voters were cheated out of a referendum  when he was the one who broke his cast iron promise to hold one.

In an attempted attack on the Labour Party, Mr Cameron said he knew that people feel rather cheated that they did not have a referendum on the European constitution and I am determined that we never let that happen again.

In September 2007, Mr Cameron gave his famous cast iron promise to hold a referendum on the new European constitution which transferred key elements of law-making and power to Brussels.

At the time, Mr Cameron said I will give this cast-iron guarantee: If I become PM a Conservative government will hold a referendum on any EU treaty that emerges from these negotiations. No treaty should be ratified without consulting the British people in a referendum.

Mr Cameron maintained this pledge until the British National Party publicly pointed out that the clauses of the Lisbon Treaty made it impossible to amend or reject any individual parts and that the only option was to either agree to it or withdraw completely.

Despite this obvious fact  which must have been known to Mr Cameron when he made his cast iron promise  the Tories continued with their deception right up to the last moment, hoping to trick the eurosceptic public.

Mr Camerons latest sleight-of-hand is to promise more referendums on any new EU regulations and rules is as flawed as his original cast iron promise.

The Lisbon Treaty, now more properly called the new EU constitution, makes it very clear that its decisions are enforceable by law and decisions are taken by a simple majority vote.

This means that if a particular law is enacted by the European Commission, Britain is obliged to implement it and has no opt out escape route, as Mr Cameron is trying to imply.

Once again, the BNP alone has pointed out that there is no sly way of avoiding the EU constitution through referenda, as Mr Cameron now pathetically claims.

The choice is very clear: Britain either adheres to the Lisbon Treaty constitution, or it leaves the EU. Those are the only options.

Mr Cameron has not only scraped the bottom of the barrel of hypocrisy, but he has also lied to the public.

* The Labour Partys Europe minister Caroline Flint, responsible for signing Britain up to the new EU constitution, admitted in parliament in March 2009 that she had never even read the Lisbon Treaty.

At least the Labour Party was honest about their deliberate disregard for Britains sovereignty, unlike the Tories who insist on lying about their policy at every opportunity.

ironclad-cameron

Posted in National News | Comments (95)

