Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228010010.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

Promoting Enterprise

Government needs to provide an immediate impetus to get the economy moving. But long-term private investment in the production of high-quality tradable goods and services is essential for long-term success. This will only be possible if we encourage a climate of investment, enterprise and partnership.

We will:

    Reform taxation to increase investment. We will increase investment substantially in schemes such as SMART to encourage innovation in industry, particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises, especially those involved in manufacturing. We will reform corporation tax and the taxation of savings to achieve even treatment for different forms of savings. This will reduce the current tax penalties on investment in industry.
    Encourage a long-term approach to private investment. We will reverse the burden of proof for acquisitions away from the target company towards the predator, and require companies to ballot their shareholders on bid plans. We will reform company law to require greater disclosure of information such as expenditure on research and development. We will define the responsibilities of non-executive directors and insist that all publicly quoted companies have them on their boards.
    Encourage small business and the self-employed, and ensure a 'level playing field' for them in competing with their larger counterparts. This will include relieving the administrative burden on small business, legislating to make interest payable on overdue debt, and encouraging TECs, chambers of commerce and local enterprise agencies to reorganise to form a network of business-led 'one-stop shops'. We will encourage, and if necessary legislate for, banks to treat small businesses fairly by agreeing contracts for services.
    Encourage flexibility in working patterns, including part-time and flexi-time work, job-sharing and homeworking, adequate backup for carers of the young or old, and access to appropriate training. We will encourage a new system of tax-free child-care vouchers for parents of children under five, given by employers and usable in workplace, local authority and private nurseries and for individual qualified carers.
    Share success in industry. We will legislate to establish the right of every private sector employee in a substantial company to have access to a share in ownership and/or in the profits they help to create. We will encourage profit-related pay, employee share-ownership schemes and employee buy-outs. We will relaunch the Cooperative Development Agency.
    Build partnership in industry. We will ensure that every employee has a right to participate in decision-making in their enterprise. We will set up a new Industrial Partnership Agency to help companies and their employees find the precide forms of partnership which best suit them.

