Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040195.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP

Red White and Blue Is a Racist Colour Scheme, but Religious Global Domination Is Fine.
May 1st, 2010 by Michael Wood

The establishments institutional anti-white racism has been illustrated with two contrasting events this week: the feather glove treatment handed out to a Muslim who defaced a war memorial; and the heavy handed treatment of a British man who dared to put up a homemade poster in his window calling for voters to get the lot out.
Red White and Blue: Obviously racist

Red White and Blue: Obviously racist.

When a 74-yr-old man decided to add some colour to his anti-politician poster, he never dreamed that his choice would end with the local police at the door.

Within 90 minutes of posting the banner on the inside of his bedroom window, a busybody neighbour had presumably decided to take offence on behalf of ethnic minorities and called the local police station.

Apparently, the choice of Union flag colours on a white background could be considered to be racist.

There are two troubling  but not all that surprising  themes to this tale. The first is that a neighbour felt the need to inform the police the moment they felt the state orthodoxy had been contradicted. There once existed a super state that encouraged this type of spying on fellow citizens.

The second concern is the zeal of the police when dealing with somebody who has allegedly said, done or even thought something which has been described as potentially racist. Somebodys breaking into your car? Ok, heres a crime reference number.

Somebody has a St Georges cross in their car? Cue the sirens. In other tyrannical regimes across the world there once existed organisations which dealt with potential dissidents in this manner.

I imagine the rapidity of the police response was probably inspired by the thought that theyd be dealing with a British National Party member. Wed better arrest one of them; its been a while.

In contrast, an Islamic radical can denigrate a memorial to our war dead, praise a mastermind of mass-murder, threaten the non-Muslim population and the Prime Minister all at once, and then walk away with conditional discharge.

Islam Will Dominate: Clearly non-religious

Believe me, if you or I, as members of the British National Party, had incited murder, our feet wouldnt touch the floor. The media would be presenting the act as proof that were all violent thugs. The black propagandists of the Labour Party would be in an orgasmic state and their aggressive attack dogs in the UAF would be tooling themselves up, looking for a BNP cranium to smash.

Yet, a spiritual leader defending the perpetrator reveals the utter contempt that these people have for the indigenous community: It really doesnt concern us how the British people feel about the graffiti, he bleated.

I dont suppose it would concern them. When you have the entire state apparatus working for you, then you need not fear offending the subjugated majority.

The twist to this disgusting story is that the local media and ultra-leftist groups had tried to claim that this hate graffiti was the work of the BNP. Egg and faces comes to mind.

