Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228070012.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Education

Schools

An independent Britain requires a qualified, well-trained population with the skills and knowledge needed to compete in the world. But education has wider purposes, too: the pursuit of knowledge for its own sake, the transmission of cultural values, and the creation of good citizens with the inquiring minds required for a free society. The UK Independence Party seeks to remove obstacles to learning, to give real opportunities to every pupil and promote excellence rather than mediocrity. That means a return to more traditional methods of teaching the basic skills of reading, writing and arithmetic. It also means shifting the balance of power from educational bureaucrats towards school governors, head teachers, teachers themselves and parents.

In promoting freedom of choice, the UK Independence Party will allow state schools to select for academic ability or potential and to stream pupils, as long as they take into account social needs and give opportunities to children from less advantaged backgrounds. We believe in top quality education for all, regardless of background, race or income, and would work towards reducing class sizes, especially at junior level, where the foundations of learning should be laid. Our target is less than twenty-five pupils per class. Part of the Independence Dividend of funds released as a result of Britain's departure from the EU will be converted into an Education Dividend to pay for more teachers.

We also recognise that some children do better at single-sex schools, some parents prefer religious schools and that 'non-academic' children deserve as rewarding an education as their peers. And we envisage more specialist schools, which focus on (for example) music, sport, or technology. The UKIP will raise the status of technical education to that of academic schooling, and allow early specialisation in practical subjects. There are many people from industry, the Armed Forces and the professions with knowledge, skill and insight, who could make valuable contributions to this programme.

We do not rule out radical schemes, such as vouchers for parents to send their children to private schools, or schools outside their localities, where these meet their needs better. More generally, The UKIP seeks to break down the 'wall' between private and state schools, for we value the role of both in educating our children.

The UKIP aims for an education policy that reflects the concerns of parents, many teachers and pupils themselves, not self-proclaimed educational 'experts'. We shall therefore address such problems as boys' under-achievement (and the social problems this causes), the shortage of male teachers to act as role models, lax discipline, and the continuing under-achievement of many ethnic minority children. We note that some parents send their children to Commonwealth countries to receive a traditional 'British' education. This is a terrible indictment of our system. All British children should have the opportunity of a decent education. The UKIP will ensure that the days of levelling-down are over.

A further concern is politically slanted teaching, especially in History, English and 'Personal and Social Education'. A major cause of this problem is dogma-driven teacher training that also promotes flawed 'child-centred' and 'progressive' teaching methods. Teacher training will be restructured, with less emphasis on abstract educational theory, and more on tried and tested teaching methods. Another cause of bias is the insidious EU programme to brainwash our children, so that they grow up believing uncritically in the 'European ideal'. Brussels makes no secret of its desire to control education, and EU propaganda in schools has greatly increased. Unlike the other parties, we can promise that this will never happen in British schools.

The UKIP believes in genuine citizenship education including an understanding of British history. This includes learning to think, criticise and argue as well as obey the law. Citizenship is not about promoting fashionable 'isms' or lifestyles, but about independence of mind, responsible behaviour and 'life skills' such as managing money, understanding road safety and practical care for the environment. Many schools already do an excellent job in this respect.

Finally, the UKIP will stop the sale of playing fields. We regard sporting activity as an essential part of good schooling. The long-term educational and social benefit of sport in schools should not be sacrificed for short-term profit. We deplore the decline of competitive sports and other outdoor activities in schools, and will take appropriate measures to reverse this trend.

With more choice and responsibility returned to governors, teachers and parents, the UKIP is confident that motivation and classroom discipline will improve, educational standards will rise, and teachers will regain the respect that their profession deserves.

