Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040130.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Tory press finds plenty of BNP supporters in Barking
April 12, 2010

nickinbarkingTHE Tory media are desperate to shore up David Camerons crumbling support. They can see voters switching loyalty, but its not from Labour to the Conservatives. Instead its from Labour to the British National Party, and thats got them worried.

This morning the Daily Telegraph and Daily Mail, both unashamed mouthpeices for the Tories, carried extensive anti-BNP reports on our campaign in Barking in an effort to dissuade their readers from voting for the British National Party.

In both reports, journalists(?) Paul Bracchi and Tanya Gold found significant support for the British National Party.

Bracchi wrote in the Daily Mail:

The Cross of St George is blowing in the breeze outside Clive Neals end of terrace in Barking. Mr Neal is 61. He took early retirement from the Dagenham Ford plant in 2002 when car production finally stopped and many thousands of jobs were lost.

Gradually, since then, and probably before, he says, the street he still lives in, the area he grew up in, and the country he was once so proud of has changed beyond all recognition and no one  certainly not anyone from the Labour or Conservative parties  bothered to knock on his door and ask him what he thought about it, or the effect it might be having on his life.

Clive Neal used to vote Tory, but now he informs me, that I will be voting BNP, adding: Were losing our sense of what it is to be British and this upsets and frustrates me.

Farther up the road, single mother Karen Woodward, 39, says she will also be voting BNP. As will the woman, in her late 50s, at the pebble-dash terrace at No. 50, and the 34-year-old former builder, now registered disabled, at No. 52 (Ive never voted BNP before, but Im going to because the country is in a mess).

The grandmother a few doors up? BNP. The middle-aged man at the house with a dodgy extension; BNP. His next-door neighbour; BNP. Two pensioners, behind the blue and brown doors, across the street; both BNP. A third pensioner, male, walking along the pavement. Yes, he would be voting BNP, too.

The underlying electoral statistics confirm the anecdotal evidence.

The Telegraphs Tanya Gold found equally enthusiastic support in a local pub.

The drinkers come out to talk. They are all ex-Labour, now BNP. Its housing, schools, hospitals and jobs, not colour, says one man. I believed in Old Labour but not New Labour. They have failed in this borough.

People have had enough, says a woman. We are being pushed to the back of the queue. My son couldnt get into the school of his choice. He has no chance of a council house.
You dont appreciate that our facilities are getting swamped, says another man. If we vote BNP, people might start listening to us. Because we have been abandoned by our government.

Providing further evidence that Labour voters are switching allegiance is the lack of posters in peoples windows.

Five years ago when Labour won the seat with a 7,000 majority, Barking was covered with vote Margaret Hodge posters. This weekend there were hardly any to be seen . . . and that is significant.

Hodges 7,000 majority is shrinking by the day because voters are switching to Nick Griffin and the British National Party.

Posted in National News | Comments (241)

