Text ID:
uk_pm_el_83_228020012.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 1983
-------------------------------------

A better deal for women

Labour's objective is to achieve equality between women and men. Over half the population are women; yet in our society, paid employment is seen as important while domestic skills - involving caring for children - do not enjoy their proper status. Women should have a genuine choice between staying at home to look after the family or going to work. Men and women should be able to share the rights and responsibilities of paid employment and domestic activities, so that job segregation within and outside the home is broken down.

Tory attacks on women's rights and opportunities have more than doubled the numbers of unemployed women and destroyed services which women in particular depend upon. Labour will do more than reverse these policies. We will:

    Expand current positive action programmes as well as introduce wide-ranging new schemes in order to encourage women to train and apply for new job opportunities, particularly in the area of new technology.
    Provide equal pay for work of equal value by amending the Equal Pay Act; and take action, together with the trade unions, against low pay.
    Strengthen the Sex Discrimination Act to include direct and indirect discrimination on the grounds of family status, and shift the burden of proof from the complainant to the alleged discriminator.
    Strengthen and expand the role of the Equal Opportunities Commission.
    Restore and extend women's employment rights to include part-time and home workers.
    Reverse the Tory attack on employment, social services and maternity rights.
    Improve the level of financial support to families with children and disabled dependants. The household duties test will be abolished. Extra help will be given to one-parent families.
    Establish an integrated system of child care with priority for children in the most deprived areas. Our aim will be to introduce, as soon as possible, a statutory duty on local authorities to provide nursery education for all pre school children whose parents wish it.
    Take steps to end discrimination in education and training, as set out in Labour's Programme 1982.
    Provide the resources to make a major improvement in the personal social services for the care of elderly, sick and disabled people.
    Within the NHS, improve community services, extend preventive measures including screening, and develop child health services.
    Increase the maternity grant to at least £100.
    Provide fair treatment for widows.
    Increase the death grant to at least £200.
    Work to establish equal treatment in tax and social security.
    End VAT on sanitary protection.
    Appoint a cabinet minister to promote equality between the sexes.
    Review the whole question of divorce and maintenance.
    Establish a fairer system of family law, and introduce Family Courts.
    Give more support for victims of rape; and provide an urgent review of police and court procedures in cases of rape and violence against women.
    Improve ante-natal and maternity services, and respect the wishes of women in childbirth.
    Support the provision of family crisis centres and more refuges for battered women. 

While continuing to defend and respect the absolute right of individual conscience, we will improve NHS facilities for family planning and abortion, including counselling and day-care; and we will remove barriers to the implementation of the existing right of choice for women in the termination of a pregnancy.

