Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228010008.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

1. Britain's Prosperity: Public Investment; Private Enterprise

Liberal Democrats aim to encourage a competitive and enterprising economy which is environmentally sustainable, founded on partnership and advanced skills and closely integrated with Europe.

What the economy needs is a new impetus. The Government's proposed tax cut will not achive this. Only new investment will provide the kick-start needed to escape from recession and reduce the waste of talent and energy which results from unemployment.

But Liberal Democrats also recognise Britain's long-term needs. We are committed to a free market, to free trade and to the creation of a competitive and enterprising economy. We do not believe it is government's job to run business - people do that much better. We see government's role as enabling firms and entrepreneurs to have the best possible chance. That means encouraging competition, investing in skills, involving employees in the success of their companies, nurturing small businesses, playing a positive part in the construction of the new European economy and, above all, bringing greater stability to national economic management.

Our long-term aim is to shift the burden of taxation away from the things the country needs more of - income, savings and value added - and on to the things we want less of, such as pollution and resource depletion.

Turning Britain Round

The current recession is undermining Britain's competitiveness and future success. Unemployment and business closures lead to a wastage of talent and a loss of resources. At the same time, essential investment in our country's future, in infrastructure, in education and training and in innovation, is being neglected.

Liberal Democrats will introduct an emergency programme of investment to end the slump. We will immediately put in hand a major programme of public capital investment, funded by reversing the Tory tax cut together with a prudent increase in borrowing. This, combined with a freeze in business rates and new investment in education to increase the nation's skills, will kick-start recovery and create jobs.

We will:

    Attack unemployment by creating new employment opportunities. Our emergency programme should reduce unemployement by at least 600,000 over two years. We will increase spending on public transport, housing, hospitals and schools, on energy efficiency and conservation projects and on education and training - all sensible investments for the country's future. We will aim to guarantee everyone out of work for six months or more a place on either a high quality training programme or on a work programme with a strong element of training.
    Invest in infrastructure. We will provide support for transport infrastructure, including a dedicated high-speed rail link from the Channel Tunnel to connect with the major routes to the North and West of Britain, and the extension of electrification throughout the country. We will encourage the expansion of airports outside the South East.
    Freeze business rates this year, thus effectively reducing them in real terms, a larger reduction than that promised by the Government.
    Create a training incentive for firms through the introduction of a levy equal to 2% of payroll, from which they would deduct their expenditure on training. We will require employers to release their employees aged under 19 for a minimum of two days a week futher education and/or training for nationally recognised qualifications. We will establish a fully integrated system of skills training, leading to recognised qualifications for a broad range of skills. We will increase 'access' courses for mature students and retraining for women returners and those in mid-career. We will fund crash courses in the main areas of skill shortage, aimed in particular at the long-term unemployed.
    Invest in local economies. We will set up and fund new regional development and local enterprise agencies. We will encourage TECs to become strong, locally based, employer-led organisations providing business services, acting as an effective voice for business at local leve, and overseeing training of those in employment. We will encourage decentralisation of banks and other financial institutions. We will end the present Government's policy of clawing back from local authorities, amounts equivalent to those they receive from the European Community's regional development fund.
    Invest in research, innovation and design. We will increase immediately the government science budget to 0.35% of GDP and raise it steadily thereafter. We will establish regional technology transfer centres to bring together the resources of industry, colleges, and government labs. We will encourage industry to invest in innovation and to improve the provision of seedcorn capital. We will reverse cuts in design consultancy schemes and provide additional funding for the Design Council.

