Text ID:
uk_pm_el_74_228020015.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 1974
-------------------------------------

Individual Rights and the Community

It is part of the very purpose of the Labour Party's existence to protect and extend the processes of democracy at all levels. It was a Labour Government which introduced the law which allows a citizen to sue Government itself; established the Parliamentary Commissioner; and legislated against racial discrimination and to enforce equal pay. Now we want to give a much bigger say to citizens in all their various capacities - as tenants, shoppers, patients, voters. Or as residents or workers in areas where development proposals make them feel more planned against than planned for.

Labour believes that respect for the law must be firmly based on the rights of the citizen and on his or her obligations to the whole community. We share the view of those who are alarmed at the growth of violence in our society, particularly among young people. Labour believes that law-abiding citizens are entitled to full protection. We will strengthen and uphold the police in the exercise of their proper functions. We reject entirely the view that law enforcement should ever be a matter for self appointed and politically motivated private armies.

Labour respects the rule of law; it does not respect those who want to be unofficial enforcement officers or their own special version of it. We shall also vigorously pursue policies for the elimination of areas of deprivation which are the most dangerous breeding grounds of juvenile and other crime. A Labour Government set up the Law Commission machinery to overhaul the whole body of our laws, some of which are out of date and irrelevant. In the interests of a wider, more just and effective democracy we shall seek to:

    give real equality to women;
    strengthen legislation protecting minorities;
    reform the law of nationality and citizenship;
    introduce an independent element into complaints against the police;
    make legal advice more accessible to those most in need of help;
    extend legal aid to certain tribunal hearings;
    encourage local authorities in a diversity of neighbourhood or community consultation;
    work with the co-operative movement to develop its role through the creation of a Co-operative Development Agency and in other ways. 

Labour believes that the process of government should be more open to the public. We shall:

    replace the Official Secrets Act by a measure to put the burden on the public authorities to justify withholding information;
    establish compulsory registers of interest for all MPs, councillors, peers, senior civil servants, senior council officials, and others in the upper reaches of the public service;
    protect the citizen from unwarranted and mischievous intrusion into the citizen's private affairs. 

