Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030180.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

Tories try to steal Labour & LibDem votes
Mon, 03/05/2010 - 17:27

SNP
Westminster leader Angus Robertson has today (Mon) written to
Conservative leader David Cameron asking him whether he agrees with
statements from Scottish Tory leader Annabel Goldie and Conservative MSP
David McLetchie that the party will regard all non-SNP votes in
Scotland as a Tory mandate to govern the country.
   

The full text of the letter is as follows:
  
Dear David,
  

I
was appalled to read comments from David McLetchie at the weekend
indicating that your party intends to regard all non-SNP votes in
Scotland as a mandate to govern north of the border - regardless of how
few Scottish MPs the Conservatives may have elected on Thursday. These
remarks follow similar comments from your Scottish leader Annabel Goldie
earlier this year.
   

I
would like to know whether you agree with this strategy. Scotland
has not forgotten the way that the Conservatives governed the country
when your party was far short of a majority of Scottish votes or seats -
and the people of Scotland have no desire to return to the days when
Tory rule meant a massive democratic deficit.

  
Thankfully,
Scotland has moved on and we now have a
parliament and government of our own. But the statements emanating from
your party in the run-up to polling day suggest that the Tories have not
moved on at all.

  
Mr McLetchie's
claim that "David Cameron has a mandate to
govern
Britain, of which Scotland is a part, by the overwhelming choice of the
overwhelming majority of Scots - thats the sheer logic of it", suggests
that you and your party are planning to use Labour and Lib Dem votes in
Scotland as part of any Tory mandate.

  
Is that indeed
your position?
  
You
have pledged to
treat Scotland with a "respect agenda" if a Conservative Government is
elected. However, the public statements of your colleague George Osborne
suggest that that is very far from the truth. Mr Osborne has repeatedly
failed to give a proper answer to questions on Tory plans to replace
the Barnett Formula and cut Scotland's funding. The Treasury's own rules
state that no such changes should be pursued without the consent of the
Scottish Parliament. If the Tory plan is to ride roughshod over the
wishes of Scotland's national parliament - using all non-SNP votes as
their mandate - then the people of Scotland should be told.
   

People in Scotland
considering whether to vote Labour or Lib Dem are
entitled to know whether you plan to "steal" votes for those parties as
part of a plan to concoct a Tory mandate in the event of a new
democratic deficit in Scotland - and whether you propose to use every
Labour and Lib Dem vote in Scotland to justify the savage cuts
you plan.
  
I would appreciate your urgent thoughts on these
matters.
  
Yours
Sincerely,
  
Angus
Robertson
  
Note:
Below are comments from David McLetchie on BBC Scotland's Politics
Show, May, 2nd, and also from Annabel Goldie in January.
    

David McLetchie:
  
"Scotland
is taking part in a British
general election. There is no mandate for independence. That's
absolutely clear
in this election. Well were not going to have no
seats in
Scotland. We're going to have a number of Conservative seats in
Scotland. At the end of the day, at the end
of the
day this is a British general election. People in Scotland are
participating in
a British general election.  The vast
overwhelming majority of Scots want to be part of Britain and they
accept the judgment
of the electorate as a whole. And so David Cameron has a mandate to
govern
Britain of which Scotland is a part by the overwhelming choice of the
overwhelming majority of Scots. Thats the sheer logic of it."
 
Annabel
Goldie:
  
"If the
Conservatives do win the next British general
election and we
have more seats in Scotland, some will try to argue that we have no
mandate. Let me nail this nonsense now. This is a British
general election, to elect a British government and a British prime
minister. People in Scotland want devolution, but they also want to be
part of Britain, and that means they want to be part of the Westminster
democratic process."
Filed under:

    Elections
    SNP


