Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228020015.txt

Party Manifesto: Labour (UK) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------


Neighbourhood renewal.

Over the next three years Labour is pledged to back reform, with F900 million of investment in deprived neighbourhoods. We want local people to lead renewal ? a coalition of public, private and voluntary organisations specifying priorities, engaging local effort. Local Strategic Partnerships, which we have introduced to help coordinate public service improvement, will be properly inclusive of local people, involving them in decision-making. They will be backed by specific funds to engage the local community.
Nearly F100 million has been set aside for business start-ups, and we will create a new tax credit for community investment to create F1 billion of investment in disadvantaged areas.
Labour?s objective is to get the right benefit to the right people at the right time. We want those entitled to benefits to take up their rights to claim them. Fraud undermines confidence in the welfare system, so we are committed to reduce it.
We have been prepared to be tough ? preventing fraud by tightening gateways, sharpening sanctions on fraudsters, and now with ?two-strikes-and-you?re-out?. We have saved F1 billion in fraud and error over the course of the Parliament by tightening up the way we administer income support. The introduction of Automated Credit Transfer will save a further F100 million per year.
Labour is committed to clear targets for fraud reduction for each benefit, including a commitment to halve the rate of fraud and error in income support and Job Seeker?s Allowance by 2006, and to incorporate fraud prevention into the design of new policies on benefits and tax credits. We are also committed to data sharing between government agencies and action to reduce to a minimum the number of ?spare? national insurance numbers that are a gateway to fraud.
Our welfare state is underpinned by clear values ? we help you to help yourself, we invest in children, we support our pensioners, we insist that no community be written off, and we minimise fraud and error. Our reforms will build a strong and inclusive society.
Security in retirement? state pensions to rise with Labour A popular welfare state One million children lifted out of poverty
Our ten-year goals:
- Halve the burglary rate and double the chance of a persistent offender being caught and punished, as we modernise the criminal justice system.
- Reformed local government with higher-quality services, as we decentralise power.
Our next steps
- An extra 6,000 police recruits raising police numbers to their highest ever level. - Double the amount of assets seized from drug traffickers and other major criminals. - Increased sentences plus education and drug treatment for persistent offenders. - A bill of rights for victims. - New freedoms with new targets for local government.
Peace of mind? Labour is pledged to raise police numbers to their highest ever level


