Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040009.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP

What Next from the British Establishment?
March 14, 2010

As angry Britons join the British National Party in droves after the establishments bungled attempt to muzzle it, observers now ask if ZaNu Labours next step is to follow fellow socialist Robert Mugabes lead and step up its persecution of Britains only real opposition party?

As recent opinion polls have shown, whereas the Labour Government is widely held to be one, if not the, most corrupt and inept regime ever to befoul the House of Commons, support for the so-called opposition Tory and Lib-Dem parties can hardly be described as enthusiastic.

Yet with Britain slithering morally, politically and economically downhill in the direction of Zimbabwe, it is also clear that its not just the party of (mis)government that is held in increasing contempt by the public.

Politicians from the three establishment parties have been exposed time and time again as liars, thieves and traitors; disreputable people having two things in common  their allegiance to globalism and insatiable greed.

Some of this ilk mistakenly believe that the Privileges of Parliament confers a right upon them; that being the right to rob their fellow citizens, whilst rendering themselves immune from prosecution.

It is evident that the first loyalty of these thieving establishment EU-collaborationist politicians is to themselves, the second being to their globalist masters in Brussels and the City; they have no loyalty to this country, certainly none to the British people.

In pursuance of their globalist objectives they seek Britains colonisation by foreigners, the dismantlement and export of its industrial base, the destruction of its agricultural capabilities and the eradication of its ability to defend itself.

Their subservience to globalism is also why they have striven so hard to erode any sense of national pride.

Like a thousand termites sharing a common purpose in the demolition of a wooden structure, so it is with establishment politicians and the culture, heritage and history that is the very foundation and framework upon, and around, which our nation state is built.

To add to the establishments sense of doom and gloom is the very real threat that the economic situation is going to get considerably worse before it gets better, a real, full-blown and unprecedented crisis of global capitalism.

A crisis having the potential to bring the whole rotten establishment edifice, including the corrupt political parties it nurtures, to its knees; thus creating a political vacuum that someone radically different from the old school will inevitably fill.

Their recent Zimbabwe-esque attempt to destroy the British National Party should be viewed in the context of this approaching politico-economic Armageddon, nothing more than a crude attempt to remove a potent political opponent before the vacuum forms for it to fill.

The Labour Party describes itself as a socialist party  as does Robert Mugabe his ZANU grouping of thugs, thieves, and murderers.

It is no accident that both Labour and ZANU make full use of their respective impartial judiciaries for the barely concealed purpose of intimidating and persecuting opposition parties; safe in the knowledge that the independent globalist media can be relied upon neither to ask awkward questions nor to write damning editorials.

So whats left for the Labour regime, more contrived court cases instigated by them through Government funded quangos using taxpayers money?

As Britain progresses relentlessly down the path to anarchy and chaos anything is possible from an increasingly desperate British establishment; greedy unprincipled people who will sink to any depths to cling to the reins of power.

Posted in National News | 117 Comments 

