Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228020017.txt

Party Manifesto: Labour (UK) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

The nations of the UK.

Devolution has strengthened the UK, preserving the union on the basis of a fairer partnership.
The nationalist lie has also been exposed: the UK is strong enough and flexible enough to devolve power while retaining the benefits of staying together.
The Scottish Parliament and the Welsh Assembly have put power in the hands of local people. In Scotland the Parliament has power over primary legislation. In Wales we will build on the already successful legislative partnership with the Assembly, and continue to enact specific legislation for Wales, where appropriate.
The UK Parliament makes the essential financial allocations to all devolved bodies.
English MPs make up 85 per cent of the UK Parliament so there is no case for threatening the unity of the UK with an English Parliament or the denial of voting rights to Scottish, Welsh and Northern Ireland?s MPs at Westminster.

Northern Ireland.

We have made working for peace in Northern Ireland a priority. The Good Friday Agreement was overwhelmingly supported by the people of Northern Ireland and in the Republic of Ireland.
While it has not brought a perfect peace, and while the peace process has not been smooth, it has made life immeasurably better.
Northern Ireland now has its own Assembly and Executive. They have produced their first programme for government and first budget on a cross-community basis. The security situation has been transformed. People can walk again on the streets of Belfast free from fear. Troops no longer patrol in most of the province. And the number of murders has been drastically reduced.
We will build on these foundations to ensure that the Good Friday Agreement is implemented in full and the new institutions take root. We will establish a modern, responsive and fully accountable police service properly representative of the two main traditions in Northern Ireland and enjoying their trust and support. And we will bring about the key reforms in the civil and criminal justice system which secure the respect and trust of both traditions.

Parliamentary reform.

The House of Commons is now more representative than ever before, yet only one in five MPs is a woman. Labour increased women?s representation five-fold in the 1997 Parliament through all-women shortlists. We are committed, through legislation, to allow each party to make positive moves to increase the representation of women. Labour will continue to modernise the procedures of the House of Commons so it can effectively fulfil its functions of representation and scrutiny.
The government has introduced major innovations in the electoral systems used in the UK ? for the devolved administrations, the European Parliament, and the London Assembly. The Independent Commission on the Voting System made proposals for electoral reform at Westminster. We will review the experience of the new systems and the Jenkins report to assess whether changes might be made to the electoral system for the House of Commons. A referendum remains the right way to agree any change for Westminster.
We are committed to completing House of Lords reform, including removal of the remaining hereditary peers, to make it more representative and democratic, while maintaining the House of Commons? traditional primacy. We have given our support to the report and conclusions of the Wakeham Commission, and will seek to implement them in the most effective way possible. Labour supports modernisation of the House of Lords? procedures to improve its effectiveness.
We will put the independent Appointments Commission on a statutory footing.
Whitehall.

Our civil service is world-renowned for its independence. Labour is committed to maintaining the political impartiality of the civil service. But it needs reform to make it more effective and more entrepreneurial. There have been important reforms already. We want to take further radical steps to ensure the civil service has the skills base necessary to meet the challenges set out in this manifesto.
Equal rights for all, proper enforcement of the law, and reformed structures of self-government: these are the foundations of a strong civic society.
Labour offers opportunity with responsibility ? the right combination for Britain in the 21st century.
Labour will build on its Compact with the voluntary sector, as we develop more farreaching partnerships for the delivery of services and the renewal of our communities.
We will also build on our financial incentives for volunteering, by developing an effective infrastructure to support voluntary work in every community in Britain. We welcome the contribution of churches and other faith-based organisations as partners of local and central government in community renewal. We will use a successor to the Lambeth Group to look at government?s interface with faith communities.
Immigration.

People from abroad make a positive contribution to British society. As our economy changes and expands, so our rules on immigration need to reflect the need to meet skills shortages. The primary purpose rule, which split families and did nothing to stop abuse, has been ended. A right of appeal for family visitors has been introduced.
immigration rules will remain clear, firm and fair, and help ensure that those who come and work here continue to make a major contribution to our economic and social life.

Asylum.

It is right that people fleeing persecution are able to make a new life as hard-working citizens in a new country. Britain has a long record of providing a home for such people, and it is important that we maintain this position. But asylum should not be an alternative route to immigration.
The UK is ninth per head of population among European nations for asylum applications. The key is to hear cases swiftly as well as fairly. By cutting the decision time and increasing the processing of claims to over 10,000 a month, Labour has reduced the backlog we inherited.
We have tightened controls against traffickers, and introduced a civil penalty for lorry drivers who bring in illegal immigrants. A national support system has been introduced to relieve pressure on local authorities. Asylum seekers and their dependants whose claims are rejected will be removed from Britain with the aim of more than 30,000 in 2003-04. We will also help those granted refugee status to integrate into the local community, supporting them so they can come off benefits and into work.

We support tough penalties for those who engage in the barbaric trade of human trafficking. We will bring forward proposals to ensure a common interpretation of the 1951 Convention across the EU and to improve the international response to regional crises.
Change comes from the bottom up as much as the top down. For the last 50 years, governments have failed to respect this basic truth.
Local authorities are responsible for the effective delivery of over F90 billion of public services a year. The staff and councillors who work for the community often have the hardest jobs and their expertise is a real resource when it comes to achieving reform. The best of local government is an inspiring example of what government can achieve.

Labour?s ambition is a partnership of mutual respect and mutual responsibility. We want to combine additional rights and resources with responsibility and reform, working with councillors and officers to develop the structures, services and finance to help local communities.
The job of local government is to provide the leadership to improve quality of life, and offer the citizen a seamless, one-stop service. We have worked with local government to establish clear targets for standards of service; and to offer incentives for service improvement and innovation. Partnership with the voluntary and private sectors is key.

The foundation of effective service delivery is best value in every service. Year on year, local authorities and their staff will now work to achieve improvement in services, matching themselves against the best. Citizens need a voice ? we will work with local government to ensure that citizens? needs are the driving force in the procurement and delivery of local services.

Electronic service delivery offers the prospect of greater convenience, access and quality, and we have set demanding targets for its use.
When public services are delivered in partnership with the private and voluntary sectors, this should be on the basis of best value not worst labour standards. The TUPE regulations protect the rights of any transferred employees. Newly hired workers are protected by minimum standards at work. We will use a wide-ranging review of TUPE regulations to consider whether unfair disparities are being created between these two groups of workers.
We want to give successful local councils more leeway to meet local needs using a F400 million reward fund. We have piloted local public service agreements to offer new investment and greater financial flexibility in return for higher performance.
We will extend this reform to all upper-tier councils.

We will offer further flexibility for high-performance authorities, with reformed inspections and more local discretion to encourage civic renewal. We consulted last year on a range of reforms aimed at enabling councils to deliver key local services on the basis of transparent, stable and adequate funding. These remain our aims. We will give new freedoms to local authorities to enable them to invest in local capital projects.
Labour believes that local quality of life issues ? from litter to parks ? are vital issues, not peripheral. We will pilot home zones, redesigning local areas to enhance safety and the quality of the local neighbourhood. Local authorities should have the incentive and means to improve the local environment by recycling local fines into a local environment fund.
Our ambition is the development of active, intouch local government, serving the people. We support the introduction of elected mayors for our cities, which is why every local council now has the power to ballot citizens for a mayor.

Regional government.

Some functions are best tackled at the regional level. Economic development is the core of regional policy today. In our first term, we have created RDAs to drive regional economic development. Regional chambers have been set up to provide some accountability for regional economic decision-making.
We are committed, as RDAs take on more power, to enhance the scrutiny functions of regional chambers. For some regions this degree
Multicultural Britain? an inclusive society begins at school Towards peace in Northern Ireland? Tony Blair with David Trimble and Seamus Mallon Political renewal Global responsibility? Labour is increasing funding for our armed forces Our ten-year goals
Europe to have the most competitive knowledge-based economies in the world, as British ideas lead a reformed and enlarged Europe.
Delivering Kyoto and international development targets, as we help tackle climate change and global poverty.
Our next steps:
- Lead economic reform in Europe Work for the re-start of world trade Talks.
- Strong, effective and responsive armed forces.
- Raise international aid towards the UN target.
- Be the first country to introduce greenhouse gas trading to cut pollution.


