Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228070005.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

1 The Economy:Tax, Budget &Regulation
Britain’s economy is being suffocated by hightaxation, excessive EU regulation, overgenerouswelfare and punitive bureaucracy.Meanwhile, the recession has seen theeconomy shrink sizeably. The current tax codeis more than 10,000 pages long and requiresdramatic simplification. There are nearlyeight million people - or one in every four UKworkers - employed in ‘Education, Health andPublic Administration’ - two million more thanin 1997. Radical reform is essential. UKIP will:· Take all minimum wage earners out of tax byraising the tax threshold to £11,500; encouragingmany to work, in tandem with UKIP’swelfare reforms· Introduce a flat tax which will make alltaxpayers better off and take a further4.5 million lower paid workers out of incometax altogether. The flat tax will merge existingincome tax bands and Employees’ NationalInsurance contributions into a single rate of31%, starting at that £11,500 threshold.Pension income below the higher-rate taxthreshold will stay at 20%· Stimulate job creation by phasing outEmployers’ National Insurance (the ‘tax onjobs’) over a five-year period (20% reductionp.a.). The revenue will be recouped either asPAYE tax, corporation tax, sales tax revenue, orby the reduced need for State welfare· Recognise the dangerous levels of nationaldebt and accept there is no alternative tomajor cuts in government spending. We donot accept that service improvements requireever-increasing government expenditure, andbelieve there is substantial waste andinefficiency that can be eliminated while vitalfront line services remain fully protected. UKIP
also believes profligate government spending is killing off the productive activity that provides tax funds, and that easing the burden will be the route to revitalising the economy· Aim to reduce the public sector to the size it was in 1997, cutting many unnecessaryquangos and non-jobs over five years. The goal is to exchange two million public sector jobs for one million new skilled jobs in manufacturing and related services and at least one million additional jobs created as a result lower personal taxes and reduced business taxation and regulation· Cut council tax by scrapping EU laws like the landfill tax that costs every district council an average of £3 million p.a., as well as culling non-jobs and political correctness· Replace the EU’s Value Added Tax (VAT) with a ‘Local Sales Tax’ (LST), collected in the same way, but with a proportion going direct to councils so that local authorities raise at least half their income from local taxes· Normally allow a standard 50% of Uniform Business Rate (UBR) collected in a local area to be paid direct to the appropriate local council, with the remaining 50% to be paid centrally· Abolish Inheritance Tax at the earliest opportunity (once economic conditions allow) as this is a small tax with major implications for all but the relatively wealthy· Stop the tax and welfare system penalising married and unmarried couples· Scrap up to 120,000 EU directives and regulations that impact on the UK economy. In particular, UKIP would repeal the forthcoming AIFM Directive that threatens hedge funds in the City of London, and the Temporary Workers Directive that threatens Britain’s flexible economy. UKIP would also scrap the EU’s proposed direct taxes and make sure financial regulation is returned to UK control· Restore responsibility for overseeing the UK banking system to the Bank of England (BoE), which must remain independent. Banks will have to increase minimal capital ratios from the current 4% to at least 8% of total assets· Require the BoE to enforce a rigid division between retail banks and investment banks (where much instability has occurred) based on the US Glass-Steagall legislation.Retail banks will be allowed only to takedeposits from private and commercial customers and advance loans to the same customers up to the limit of their deposits, guaranteed by the BoE. Investment banks will be free to raise money by bonds and shares, but will not be allowed to be deposit-takers· Reinstate the banking ‘corset’. We will require banks and other authorised lenders to make non-interest bearing deposits at the BoE when lending beyond approved limitsDownload the full Tax, Budget & Regulation policy from the Policies’section of www.ukip.org

