Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228020009.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

The Labour Party Manifesto 2010Strengthening our communities, securing our borders

Crime and immigration

The challenge for Britain

To reduce the fear of crime by protecting frontlinepolicing while making the police more responsive andaccountable, and taking faster action on anti-socialbehaviour. The Tories talk tough but vote soft onissues from gun crime to DNA retention; would cutpolice and PCSO numbers; and favour political policechiefs over real reform. We will control immigrationwith our new Australian-style points-based system —unlike the arbitrary Tory quota, which would damagebusiness and growth.The next stage of national renewal• Provide the funding to maintain police and PCSOnumbers with neighbourhood police teams in everyarea, spending 80 per cent of their time on the beatvisible in their neighbourhood; improve policeperformance through online police report cards andensure failing forces are taken over by the best.• Intervene earlier to prevent crime, with no-nonsenseaction to tackle the problems caused by 50,000dysfunctional families.• Guarantee fast and effective action to deal with antisocialbehaviour, including a right to legal injunctions forrepeat victims, funded by the police or council who letthem down.• Expand tough ‘Community Payback’ for criminals whodon’t go to prison, giving everyone the right to vote onthe work they do.• Control immigration through our Australian-stylepoints-based system, ensuring that as growth returnswe see rising levels of employment and wages, notrising immigration, and requiring newcomers to earncitizenship and the entitlements it brings.

Britain is far safer now thanwhen the Tories left office.Crime is down by more than athird; violent crime is down byover 40 per cent, and the risk ofbeing a victim of crime is thelowest since 1981. But peopleare still worried about bingedrinking, problem families andanti-social behaviour. We arecommitted to tackling theseproblems, not talking them upto run Britain down.We understand people’sconcerns about immigration –about whether it will underminetheir wages or job prospects, orput pressure on public servicesor housing – and we have acted.Asylum claims are down to thelevels of the early 1990s andnet inward migration has fallen.We will use our new Australianstylepoints-based system toensure that as growth returnswe see rising employment andwages, not rising immigration –but we reject the arbitrary andunworkable Tory quota.Protecting frontlinepolicingThere are now record numbersof police officers – nearly17,000 more than in 1997 –backed up by 16,000 PoliceCommunity Support Officers.We are committed to giving thepolice the resources to maintainthese numbers, with funding
assured for the next threeyears. To protect the front linewe are making tough choiceselsewhere: continuing to cutbureaucracy and inefficiency inprocurement, IT and overtime.Every community now has aneighbourhood police teamcommitted to spending atleast 80 per cent of theirtime on the beat visible intheir neighbourhood, andresponding to non-emergencyissues within 24 hours. Toensure that communitiescan determine local policingpriorities, neighbourhood policeteams will hold monthly beatmeetings - at which local peoplewill have a right to hold seniorcommanders to account.We will protect the policefrom politicisation, but takeswift action where they are notperforming. Online crime mapsnow give everyone monthlyinformation on crime in theirarea, and we have supportedthe Policing Inspectorate inpublishing new online ‘reportcards’, comparing how forcesperform. Where a police forceor local Basic CommandUnit consistently fails localpeople, we will ensure eitherthat the senior managementteam including the boroughcommander or chief constableis replaced, or it is taken over bya neighbouring force or BCU.Early intervention andpreventing crimeWe need to do more and actearlier to stop children goingdown the wrong path. So wewill expand Family NursePartnerships to all vulnerableyoung mothers, reducingfuture crime and behaviouralproblems. For the 50,000most dysfunctional familieswho cause misery to theirneighbours, we will provideFamily Intervention Projects– proven to tackle anti-socialbehaviour – a no-nonsenseregime of one-to-one supportwith tough sanctions for noncompliance.Youth reoffending is nowfalling, and the numbers inyouth custody have fallen by30 per cent. We will expandUS-style street teams whichuse youth pastors and vettedex-offenders to reach out todisaffected young people;Youth Conditional Cautionswhich focus on rehabilitationand reparation; and we willintroduce a preventativeelement for all Anti-SocialBehaviour Orders for under16s. To ensure there are morethings for teenagers to do wewill double the availability oforganised youth activities onFriday and Saturday nights.We will expand joint workingbetween police and theprobation service to superviseprolific young offenders afterthey get out of prison, and theuse of mentors including vettedex-prisoners to meet offenders‘at the gate’ so they don’t slipback into crime. And alcoholtreatment places will be trebledto cover all persistent criminalswhere alcohol is identified as acause of their crimes.We need to try new approachesto solving the most intractableproblems. So we will pioneerSocial Impact Bonds,encouraging private investorsto support social entrepreneursand the third sector – andharnessing additionalinvestment for crime preventionat minimal cost to the taxpayer.We have shown that RestorativeJustice can increase satisfactionfor victims and the police, andwe will bring in a RestorativeJustice Act to ensure it isavailable wherever victimsapprove it.On drugs, our message is clear:we will not tolerate illegaldrug use. We have reclassifiedcannabis to Class B andbanned ‘legal highs’. Moreaddicts are being treated, witha higher proportion goingon to drug-free lives. We willswitch investment towards thoseprogrammes that are shown
to sustain drug-free lives andreduce crime.Tough action on crime andanti-social behaviourCrime continued to fall duringthe recession, in markedcontrast to the recessions of the1980s and 1990s. Homicides areat the lowest level for a decade –gun murders are at their lowestfor 20 years, and our gun lawsare among the toughest in theworld. We have strengthenedthe law on knife crime with jailmore likely, sentences longer,and more police searches andscanners – and knife crime hasfallen. We are tackling territorialyouth gangs with specific policepowers, and new approachesthat confront gangs whilesupporting those who want toleave gang life.Domestic violence has fallenby over 50 per cent since1997, reporting of rape hasdoubled, and rape convictionshave increased by morethan 50 per cent. But we arecommitted to zero toleranceof violence against women, sowe will continue to drive upprosecution rates, tackle causes,and raise awareness – as wellas maintaining women-onlyservices including a SexualAssault Referral Centre in everyarea.Labour is proud to be theparty that legislated first tocriminalise incitement to racialhatred, religious hatred, andhomophobic hatred – and wewill reverse the Tory attempt toundermine this latest legislation,invoking the Parliament Act ifnecessary to force it through.To tackle the binge drinkingwhich can leave people reluctantto venture into town centresat night, we have bannedirresponsible promotionsand strengthened police andcouncil powers to close downrowdy pubs and clubs, crackingdown on under-age and publicdrinking. We have brought in aright to petition local authoritiesto end 24-hour licensing whereproblems arise.There were no specific powersagainst anti-social behaviour in1997. Now there are ASBOs,parenting orders and dispersalpowers. Because we knowpeople want faster action onASB, we will guarantee aninitial response to any complaintwithin 24 hours. Localauthorities and other agencieswill be required to give peoplea named case worker who willreport back on progress, andescalate action if the problempersists. All relevant agencies –not just neighbourhood policeteams – will hold monthlypublic meetings to hear people’sconcerns; all PCSOs will havestronger powers to tackle ASB;a ‘Respect’ standard for theprivate rented sector will beintroduced; and local ASBchampions will make agencieswork together to tackle cases.Enforcement will also bestrengthened: we will ensurethat the great majority ofapplications for ASBOstake under a month andthat whenever an ASBO isbreached there is an expectationof prosecution. And whensomeone suffers repeated ASBand the police, council, courtsor other agencies fail to act,there must be a stronger formof redress. So we will legislateto give people financial supportto pursue legal injunctions, withthe costs met by the agency thatlet them down.Using technology to cutcrimeWe will continue to makefull use of CCTV and DNAtechnology: new weaponsdeployed to strengthen our fightagainst crime. We are proud ofour record on civil liberties andhave taken the DNA profiles ofchildren off the database andtightened the rules around theuse of surveillance – but we arealso determined to keep ourstreets safe.
CCTV reduces the fear ofcrime and anti-social behaviour.We have funded cameras innearly 700 areas, and broughtin a new power for people topetition their local authority formore CCTV.Advances in DNA technologyhave been critical in solvingserious crimes – last year alonethere were 832 positive matchesto the DNA database in cases ofrape, murder and manslaughter.Labour will ensure that the mostserious offenders are added tothe database no matter where orwhen they were convicted – andretain for six years the DNAprofiles of those arrested but notconvicted.The new biometric ID schemewhich already covers foreignnationals will be offered toan increasing number ofBritish citizens, but will not becompulsory for them. It willhelp fight the growing threat ofidentity theft and fraud, as wellas crime, illegal immigrationand terrorism. In the nextParliament ID cards and the IDscheme will be self-financing.The price of the passport andID cards together with savingsfrom reduced fraud across thepublic services will fully coverthe costs of the scheme.Punishment and reformWe have provided over 26,000more prison places since 1997.There are more criminals inprison – not because crime isrising but because violent andserious offenders are goingto prison for longer. We willensure a total of 96,000 prisonplaces by 2014. More EU andother foreign prisoners will betransferred abroad, and we willwork to reduce the number ofwomen, young and mentallyill people in prison. Any sparecapacity generated will reducecosts while protecting the public.For offenders not sentenced toprison we have brought in toughnew ‘Community Payback’:hard work in public, wearingorange jackets. We will extendnationwide the right for localpeople to vote on what workoffenders do to pay back to thecommunities they have harmed.We will always put the victimfirst in the criminal justicesystem. We are creating aNational Victims Service toguarantee all victims of crimeand anti-social behaviour sevenday-a-week cover and a named,dedicated worker offering oneto-one support through the trialand beyond. The compensationoffenders have to pay to victimshas been increased, and wewill now ensure victims get thispayment up front.To help protect frontlineservices, we will find greatersavings in legal aid and thecourts system – increasing theuse of successful ‘virtual courts’which move from arrest, to trial,to sentencing in hours ratherthan weeks or months. We willuse the tax system to claw backfrom higher-earning offendersa proportion of the costs ofprison. Asset confiscationwill be a standard principlein sentencing, extended fromcash to houses and cars. Everycommunity will have the rightto vote on how these assetsare used to pay back to thecommunity.Terrorism and organisedcrimeOur counter-terrorism approachis one of the most sophisticatedin the world, and investmenthas trebled since 2001, withthousands more counterterroristpolice and a doublingof security service numbers.We will continue to give thepolice the tools they need to fightterrorism while giving Parliamentand the courts oversight toensure these powers are notoverused. We condemn torture,and our police and securityservices will not co-operate withthose who use torture. We willdevelop our Prevent strategy tocombat extremism.
We will continue to makeBritain a hostile place fororganised criminals, harassingthem with asset seizures, taxinvestigations and other powers;strengthening the SeriousOrganised Crime Agency andencouraging police forces to cooperateacross force boundariesand international borders; andresponding quickly to newthreats including cybercrime.Strong borders andimmigration controlsWe are committed to animmigration system thatpromotes and protects Britishvalues. People need to knowthat immigration is controlled,that the rules are firm and fair,and that there is support forcommunities in dealing withchange.Our borders are stronger thanever. A new Border Agencyhas police-level powers andthousands more immigrationofficers, 100 per cent of visasare now biometric, and newelectronic border controls willbe counting people in and outby the end of the year. Asylumclaims are back down to early1990s levels, and the cost ofasylum support to the taxpayerhas been cut by half in the lastsix years. Genuine refugees willcontinue to receive protection.Our new Australian-style pointsbasedsystem is ensuring weget the migrants our economyneeds, but no more. We willgradually tighten the criteriain line with the needs of theBritish economy and the valuesof British citizenship, and stepup our action against illegalimmigration. There will beno unskilled migration fromoutside the EU. Skilled jobs arenow advertised here first forfour weeks with more vacanciesgoing to local workers, andpublic procurement will infuture give priority to localpeople. The points-basedsystem will be used to controlmigration with limits for highskilledworkers and universitystudents. As growth returnswe want to see rising levels ofemployment and wages, notrising immigration.We recognise that immigrationcan place pressures on housingand public services in somecommunities so we will expandthe Migration Impact Fund,paid for by contributions frommigrants, to help local areas.We know that migrants whoare fluent in English are morelikely to work and find it easierto integrate. So as well asmaking our English test harder,we will ensure it is taken by allapplicants before they arrive.Local councils and other publicservices should keep fundingfor translation services to aminimum. Many public-sectorworkers are already requiredto meet minimum standards ofEnglish; we will build on this toensure that all employees whohave contact with the publicpossess an appropriate level ofEnglish language competence.Because we believe comingto Britain is a privilege andnot a right, we will breakthe automatic link betweenstaying here for a set periodand being able to settle or gaincitizenship. In future, stayingwill be dependent on the pointsbasedsystem, and access tobenefits and social housing willincreasingly be reserved forBritish citizens and permanentresidents – saving the taxpayerhundreds of millions of poundseach year. We will continueto emphasise the value weplace on citizenship, and theresponsibilities as well as rightsit brings, through the citizenshippledge and ceremony, and bystrengthening the test of Britishvalues and traditions.
