Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040006.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP

New Figures Prove that Immigration Is Greatest Cause of School Crisis
March 13, 2010

newham-schoolNew figures have shown that demand for school places in immigrant-dominated areas in Britain have jumped by up to 23 percent, sucking away resources from educational institutions in areas dominated by the indigenous population.

A survey conducted by a daily newspaper has revealed that some schools are struggling to cope with a huge influx following an immigrant baby boom.

According to the report, applications for primary school places have soared 23 percent since 2008 in some areas, and pressure on school places is set to intensify every year at least until 2018.

Figures from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) have shown that a total of 669,601 babies were born in England and Wales in 2006. They are all due to start school this year.

The birth rate has continued to climb, with 708,711 babies born in 2008. Statisticians have ascribed the increased birth rate to the immigration tsunami which is overwhelming Britain.

More than 25 percent of all live births in England and Wales last year were to mothers not born in Britain. When the total is expanded to include second or third generation immigrant mothers, the figure climbs to around 50 percent.

Muslims in particular are fast outbreeding any other group. The ONS statistics show that the Muslim population in Britain has multiplied 10 times faster than the rest of society.

Muhammad Abdul Bari, general secretary of the Muslim Council of Britain, predicted that the number of mosques in Britain would multiply from the present 1,600 in line with the rising Islamic population.

Official projections state that London alone will need an extra 51,000 primary school places in the next seven years.

Newham, in East London, has seen a 22.8 percent increase in school entrance applicants in just two years.

Leeds, another immigration hotspot, has seen the number of children seeking places rise from 7,188 in 2008 to 8,057 this year.

At the same time, more than 1000 primary schools have closed since 1999, all in areas where the indigenous population of Britain is still dominant.

The closures have not necessarily been driven by actual population declines, but rather on interpretations of likely demand as opposed to the real demand found in the immigrant-dominated areas.

In effect this means a transfer of resources from schools serving the native population to those serving the immigrant population.

Posted in National News | 77 Comments 

