Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228020007.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

The Labour Party Manifesto 2010Excellence in education: every child the chanceto fulfil their potential

Education

The challenge for Britain

To raise standards, promote excellence and narrowachievement gaps by giving the best school leadersand federations more schools to run, and by givingparents new rights and clear guarantees of high-qualityteaching and support for every pupil —underpinned byincreased spending. The Tories want to gamble withour children’s education, putting school improvementat risk and taking away the guarantees of an excellenteducation for all.The next stage of national renewal• Spending increased on frontline Sure Start and freechildcare, schools and 16-19 learning.• An expansion of free nursery places for two year oldsand 15 hours a week of flexible, free nursery educationfor three and four year olds.• Every pupil leaving primary school secure in the basics,with a 3Rs guarantee of one-to-one and small-grouptuition for every child falling behind; and in secondaryschool, every pupil with a personal tutor and a choice ofgood qualifications.• A choice of good schools in every area – and, whereparents are not satisfied – the power to bring in newschool leadership teams, through mergers and takeovers,with up to 1,000 secondary schools part of anaccredited schools group by 2015.• Every young person guaranteed education or traininguntil 18, with 75 per cent going on to higher education,or completing an advanced apprenticeship or technicianlevel training, by the age of 30.

Education is the key to personalfulfilment, economic prosperityand social mobility. Our goalis educational excellence forevery child, whatever theirbackground or circumstances.In 1997, half of our secondaryschools were below the basicminimum standard. Now,because of sustained investmentand reform, it is just one intwelve, with standards risingfastest in disadvantaged areas.Nearly 100,000 more childreneach year leave primary schoolsecure in reading, writing andmaths. School buildings, oncecharacterised by leaking roofsand second-class facilities, arebeing transformed. The qualityof teaching is the best ever andteachers have the status andrespect they deserve.Frontline spending on SureStart, childcare, schools and 16-19 learning will be increased,safeguarding our prioritiessuch as an additional 41,000teachers and 120,000 teachingassistants. But funding will notrise as fast as in recent years,making tough choices necessaryto focus resources on the frontline, with £950m saved throughcollaboration and efficiencyin back office functions andprocurement and £500m fromquangos and central budgets.The range and reach ofinnovative school providers willincrease, spreading excellenceto all schools. We will strive toget the best people into teachingand give parents new rightsto secure good schooling fortheir children. Participationin post-school learning willexpand, with more and betterapprenticeships, improved
vocational education, and wideraccess to higher education.The early yearsGood play-based early learninggets children off to a flying start,so that they begin school readyto learn and achieve. We haveexpanded high-quality earlylearning and childcare, whichalso supports parents to workwhen they have young childrenand improves family livingstandards.There are now over 3,500Sure Start Children’s Centresand every three and four yearold has access to free nurseryeducation, which is rising to15 hours a week. Children’sCentres will become thebedrock of a new nationalunder-fives service: ‘one-stopshops’, open to all families,offering excellent affordablechildcare, healthcare andparenting advice. The numberof free early learning places fordisadvantaged two year olds willbe expanded, on the way to ourlong-term goal of universal freechildcare for this age group.Flexible childcareBusy working parents willhave more flexibility overthe hours their children haveaccess to nursery education,such as taking them over twofull working days, as well asgreater choice over whenchildren start school. We willalso explore allowing parents tocarry over their free hours ofnursery education from year toyear. Childcare vouchers willbe retained, with all familiesreceiving income tax relief atthe basic rate, and childcarestandards will be raised by amore qualified workforce.We want to strengthen parentalengagement with Sure StartChildren’s Centres. Somevoluntary and third-sectororganisations already runnetworks of Centres, andwe will now pioneer mutualfederations running groups oflocal Children’s Centres in thecommunity interest.Excellence for all: everyschool a good schoolEvery parent wants their childto attend an excellent school –with the best possible teachingand facilities. So for pupils andparents we will set out in lawguarantees of the excellenteducation and personal supportthey can expect.No school can be better thanthe quality of its teachers. Wehave the best generation ofteachers ever, supported byteaching assistants and thewider workforce. But we mustcontinue to get the very bestpeople into teaching, from themost committed graduatesto the highest calibre careerswitchers. Teach First will beextended to attract more of thebest graduates into teaching,including teaching in primaryschools.We have invested heavily in theprofessionalism and expertiseof the workforce, and will buildon this success with a new rightfor every teacher to continuousprofessional development;in return they will have todemonstrate high standardsof teaching to maintain theirlicence to practise. We willpromote new Teacher TrainingAcademies and £10,000‘golden handcuffs’ to attractthe best teachers into the mostchallenging schools.While the number of lowperformingschools hasdecreased dramatically, wecannot tolerate any coastingor persistently poor schools.Over the last decade, we havedeveloped a cadre of world-classhead teachers, radically openedup our school system to newproviders, and worked with localauthorities and school governingbodies to drive up standards.Our task now is to devolvemore power and responsibilityto strong school leaders andto spread excellence, with
up to 1,000 schools, throughmergers and take-overs, partof an accredited school groupby 2015 – a new generation ofnot-for-profit chains of schoolswith a proven track record.These will include excellentschool leaders from themaintained sector, universities,colleges, faith schools, academychains and independent schools.We now have 200 academiesand over 50 National ChallengeTrusts, with another 200academies in the pipeline. Andwe are pioneering new cooperativetrust schools whereparents, teachers and the localcommunity come together tohelp govern their local school.More power for parentsWhere parents are dissatisfiedwith the choice of secondaryschools in an area, localauthorities will be requiredto act, securing take-overs ofpoor schools, the expansion ofgood schools, or in some cases,entirely new provision. Whereparents at an individual schoolwant change, they will be ableto trigger a ballot on whetherto bring in a new leadershipteam from a proven and trustedaccredited provider.School Report Cards will giveevery parent clear informationon standards, levels of parentalsatisfaction and behaviour andbullying. They will provideinformation on the progressbeing made by all pupils, notjust by some. We will consult ongiving every school an overallgrade for its performance.We reject a return to the 11-plus or a free-for-all admissionsystem. Our commitment tofair admissions is essentialto liberating the potential ofevery child. Ensuring all pupilsmake progress also requires afair funding system, so we willintroduce a local pupil premiumto guarantee that extra fundingto take account of deprivationfollows the pupil. Barriers tosocial mobility will be tackledby giving disadvantaged familiesfree access to broadband tosupport their child’s learning.All parents will be guaranteedonline information about theirchild’s progress and behaviour.We have high expectationsfor children with specialeducational needs and schoolswill be held to account for howwell they meet the needs ofthese pupils. We are expandingthe number of specialistdyslexia teachers and improvingteacher training for childrenwith autism. The statementingprocess will be improved to givemore support to parents, andthe supply of teachers with thespecialist skills needed to teachpupils with severe learningdisabilities in special schools willbe increased.Primary schools: no childleft behind
More children than ever leaveprimary school secure in thebasics. Every primary schoolnow offers whole-class teachingof English using phonics, andwe are introducing specialistteachers to achieve a similarstep-change in Maths. Butevery parent rightly wantsfar more, so our primarycurriculum reforms will createmore flexibility for teachersto offer a broad, challengingand engaging education, withopportunities to play sport, andto take part in arts, culture andmusic, including the chanceto learn a musical instrument.As part of these reforms, allprimary schools will teach amodern foreign language. Wewill create a specialist Mandarinteacher training qualification,so that many more primaryschools have access to aqualified primary teacher ableto teach Mandarin.Parents will be given a ‘3RsGuarantee’ that every pupilwho falls behind at primaryschool and early in secondaryschool will receive special oneto-one or small-group catch-upprovision. This will includeup to 40,000 six and seven
year olds benefiting from extratuition in English and Mathsthrough ‘Every Child a Reader’and ‘Every Child Counts’, and300,000 receiving ten hoursof one-to-one tuition in bothEnglish and Maths when theyare older.For primary-age children, weare guaranteeing childcare andconstructive activities from8am until 6pm in term-time attheir own or a neighbouringschool; this entitlement willparticularly help busy workingparents juggle work and familylife. We are extending theprovision of free school mealsso that an additional half amillion primary school childrenin families on low incomeswill benefit from healthy andnutritious food, and we aretrialing free school meals forall primary school children inpilot areas across the country.Together, these schemes willthoroughly test the case foruniversal free school meals,with the results available byautumn 2011.Secondary schools:excellence for all, personalto eachOur secondary schools havebeen transformed by greatschool leaders, teachers andsupport staff. We will build onthese achievements, tailoringeducation to the aspirations andaptitudes of individual pupils.All secondary school pupilswill have a Personal Tutor ofStudies, and we will work withschools to extend one-to-oneor small-group tuition to pupilsin the run-up to their GCSEs.Such an education should nolonger be the preserve of thewealthiest few, but a central partof the curriculum.More young people will be ableto study single science subjectsand modern foreign languages.Diplomas will strengthen thestatus and quality of vocationalstudy and bring togetheracademic and vocationalprogrammes. And the Giftedand Talented programme willbe reformed and improved,guaranteeing additionalpersonalised support. We willreview the qualifications systemin 2013, with any changestaking place in the Parliamentafter next. Meanwhile, the newindependent exam regulatorwill ensure that standards arebeing maintained.Because the learningenvironment itself matters,we will take forward ourBuilding Schools for the Futureprogramme to rebuild orrefurbish secondary schools,giving our children firstratefacilities that supportinspirational teaching andaccess to ICT, sports and thearts.Zero tolerance of poorbehaviour
The vast majority of schoolshave good or outstandingbehaviour. But no child shouldhave their learning disturbedby poor discipline in theclassroom. Teachers havestrong new powers to ensureorder and discipline and wewill support their use. HomeSchool Agreements will bestrengthened, making clearthe responsibilities of familiesand pupils. Every parent willagree to adhere to the school’sbehaviour rules, signingcontracts each year facingreal consequences if they failto live up to them, includingthe option of a court-imposedparenting order. Safer SchoolPartnerships will be extended toevery school where the head orparents demand it.Alternative education forexcluded pupils will betransformed. New providerswill be encouraged to take overexisting Pupil Referral Units,pioneering approaches thatbring order and discipline backto young people’s lives. Morewill be invested in anti-bullyinginterventions including tacklinghomophobic bullying.
Cadet forces will moveincreasingly into state schoolsand we will expand spare timeactivities for young people,doubling those available –including sport – on Fridayand Saturday nights, withneighbourhood police teamsclosely involved in areaswhere youth crime is highest.Teacher training institutionswill be asked to providespecialist courses for teachers inpromoting pupils’ resilience andresponsibility.All children safeand thrivingLiving in a family on alow income, having specialeducational needs or disabilities,and being in care all remainstrongly linked to childrenfailing to achieve. We aredetermined to narrow the gapbetween these children andtheir peers, and to continueto invest in specialist services,including short breaks fordisabled children. Learningfrom the best systems aroundthe world, we will improvefoster and residential care. Wewill expand specialised fostercare for the most vulnerablechildren and the Care2Workprogramme for all care leavers.Through Children’s Trusts,children and youth serviceswill work closely with schoolsand colleges, increasinglyco-locating wider children’sservices with schools. Earlyintervention programmeswith a proven impact will bepromoted. We will continueto reduce teenage pregnancyrates, with compulsory, highqualitySex and RelationshipEducation.Ensuring all children are safefrom abuse and harm willremain a top priority. The newVetting and Barring systemwill protect children withoutbeing unduly burdensome orinterfering in private familyarrangements. Social worktraining will be radicallyoverhauled, raising the statusand standards of the profession,and we will establish a NationalCollege of Social Work. We willpublish detailed Serious CaseReview summaries that explainthe facts, but keep full reportsout of the public domain inorder to protect children’sidentities.Staying on to get aheadStaying on rates at age 16 areincreasing, thanks in part to ourschool leavers’ guarantee ofa place at sixth form, college,training or an apprenticeship.But to ensure a new waveof social mobility, we arecommitted to an historicchange: raising the educationand training leaving age to 18.All young people will stay onin learning until 18, EducationMaintenance Allowanceswill be retained and therewill be an entitlement to anapprenticeship place in 2013 forall suitably qualified 16-18 yearolds.Further education collegesare the backbone of our postschooleducation system andthey are leading the way withnew Diplomas, working withschools. We will introducegreater freedom for all collegesto respond to local communityneeds and free them up fromred tape. Students will be givenclearer information on thequality of courses on offer, witha ‘traffic-light’ grading systemfor all courses and colleges. Tocomplement vocational learningfor 14-19 year olds in schoolsand colleges, we will pioneerUniversity Technical Collegesand new Studio Schools thatoffer innovative curriculainvolving practical learning andpaid work.Advanced apprenticeships willbe radically expanded, creatingup to 70,000 places a year.These provide well-respectedroutes into high-skilled careersand further study at universityand will support our ambitionthat three-quarters of youngpeople enter higher educationor complete an advancedapprenticeship or equivalenttechnician-level qualificationby the time they are 30. Newapprenticeship scholarships willenable the best apprentices togo on to higher education.We will open up opportunityfor people from families on lowincomes to enter professions likethe media and law, expandingpaid internships for students.To increase social mobility,careers advice for young people,including for younger children,will be overhauled, ensuringmuch better information andguidance.
World-class highereducationHigher education isfundamental to our nationalprosperity. Demand for highlevelskills is strong and growing,and the supply of goodgraduates is an increasinglyimportant factor in globaleconomic competition.We have eliminated up-frontfees paid by parents andstudents, and ensured that therepayment of loans is relatedto ability to pay. The highereducation participation ratefor young people from themost disadvantaged areas hasincreased every year since 2004.The review of higher educationfunding chaired by LordBrowne will report later thisyear. Our aim is to continue theexpansion of higher education,widening access still further,while ensuring that universitiesand colleges have a secure,long-term funding base thatprotects world-class standards inteaching and research. Aheadof the review, we have provideduniversities with funding torecruit an extra 20,000 studentsthis year.Universities must continue toraise their game in outreachto state schools, wideningparticipation and boostingsocial mobility. We willguarantee mentoring andsupport for higher educationapplications to all low-incomepupils with the potential foruniversity study, with extrasummer schools and helpwith UCAS applications;and expand programmesto encourage highly ablestudents from low-incomebackgrounds to attend RussellGroup universities. We supportuniversities that already widenaccess by taking into accountthe context of applicants’achievement at school.In the coming years, priority inthe expansion of student placeswill be given to FoundationDegrees and part-time study,and to science, technology,engineering and mathematicsdegrees, as well as appliedstudy in key economic growthsectors. The choices and viewsof students should play animportant part in shapingcourses and teaching. Alluniversities will be requiredclearly to set out how they willensure a high-quality learningexperience for students.
