Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228050012.txt

Party Manifesto: Green (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

education
Promoting free, public learningEducation should be at the heart ofcommunities, and should promote social andemotional well-being, equality, inclusion andresponsibility. Schools need more freedom toframe the curriculum around the needs andinterests of the young people in the school.There should be an emphasis on pupil-centredlearning, which caters for different learningstyles, interests and needs.

We would:• Ensure most children are able to attend agood local school with admissions policiesdecided locally and applying to all schools.• Move gradually to smaller class sizes byspending a further £500 million on 15,000more teachers to get classes down to anaverage of 20 pupils by the end of theParliament.• Defend existing smaller schools and createmore smaller schools. Large secondaryschools in particular are alienating, andthe Government’s current plan to rebuildall secondary schools offers the perfectopportunity to do so on a more human scale.• Phase in the abolition of student tuitionfees in higher education.• Gradually expand care for those youngerthan school age over the period.• Move towards ending the need for privateeducation by creating a programme of voluntaryassimilation of private schools into thestate sector. Schools that remain in the privatesector would have charitable status removedand would pay all relevant taxes, such as VAT.• Phase out City Academies and TrustSchools. It is wrong to allow business andother outside organisations to have too greatan influence over schools.• Let teachers teach – abolish theremaining SATS tests, and give schools andteachers more freedom over the curriculumthey teach.• Provide a full half day a week of invitingphysical activity for every child, and at leastone day a year learning in the naturalenvironment.• Provide free school meals for all –with locally sourced or fair-trade and (wherepossible) organic food, and with a vegetarianoption. This will encourage healthy eating,combat obesity, improve concentration andend the stigma associated with free schoolmeals. There can be few better ways ofspending up to £2bn a year, only a fractionof the amount spent on bonuses in the city.• Introduce children to renewabletechnologies at school by ensuring that mostschools get the bulk of their energy fromon-site renewable sources.• Where parents choose to educate theirchildren at home this would be supportedby Local Authorities, which would work toensure that all young people have a broadand diverse education of a high quality.

Saving school playing fields inNorwichSport at school needs playing fields, toooften under threat from developers.Norwich Green Party and Norwich Southcandidate Adrian Ramsay have successfullycampaigned to save school playing fieldsfrom being sold for development. Greensplayed a key role in the campaign to saveplaying fields at Hewett School andBlackdale Middle School.

