Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228010012.txt

Party Manifesto: LibDem (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

If we are to be able to deliver the radicalchanges proposed in this manifesto as well asrestoring the health of the public finances, wemust be honest with people about how thesepolicies will be paid for.

credible and responsible finances
stabilising Britain’s finances to deliver our promisesIf we are to be able to deliver the radical changes proposed in this manifestoas well as restoring the health of the public finances, we must be honest withpeople about how these policies will be paid for. That is why we have setout here how our tax package will be funded, where we intend to increasespending and where we plan to make savings.The savings we have identifid far outweigh the amount of spending we areproposing, and it is these savings which will be used to start to reduce thedeficit. All the savings we have identified are either instead of or additional toproposals the Government has already made. It is our working assumptionthat we will start to reduce the deficit from 2011–12 onwards.The savings identified below are only the start of a programme to tackle thedeficit and in government we will go further, holding a comprehensive reviewof all government spending, on which we will consult fully with the public.This will identify the remaining savings which will need to be made to balancethe government’s books. This comprehensive review will not reverse orundermine any of the spending commitments we make in this manifesto.Over and above our planned new levy on the profits of banks, we will seekto eliminate the deficit through spending cuts. If, in order to protect fairness,sufficient cuts could not be found, tax rises would be a last resort. While itwill be impossible to remove the Government’s tax rises while the deficit isso huge, the increase in National Insurance Contributions is a damaging taxon jobs and an unfair tax on employees, so when resources allow we wouldseek to reverse it.Following the election of a Liberal Democrat Government, an emergencybudget and interim spending review would be held by no later than the end
of June 2010. This budget and spending review would have four purposes:• To put in place the necessary tax changes in order to raise thepersonal allowance to £10,000 for the start of the financial year2011–12.• To put in place cuts which could be realised within the financial year,such as scrapping the Child Trust Fund or restricting tax credits, torelease money for our jobs and infrastructure package.• Subject to our five economic tests being met, to put into place cutsfor 2011–12 identified in our manifesto.• To confirm the departmental spending shifts necessary to deliver ourcore manifesto commitments.We will establish a Council on Financial Stability, involving representativesof all parties, the Governor of the Bank of England, and the Chair of theFinancial Services Authority. This group would agree the timeframe andscale of a deficit reduction plan to set the framework (though not the detail)for the Comprehensive Spending Review and seek to promote it externallyand domestically. Any such agreement would be without prejudice to partiesretaining and advocating distinctive views on a wide range of issues, such asfair taxes and spending priorities.Throughout the summer and early autumn a Comprehensive SpendingReview of all departments would be conducted with the objective ofidentifying the remaining cuts needed to, at a minimum, halve the deficit by2013–14. A Strategic Security and Defence Review would form part of thisspending review, working within the same financial and time constraints.This review will focus particularly on savings that can be made acrossgovernment – such as on pay, public sector pensions, and IT provision –
and on low-priority spending. It will not reverse or undermine any of thespending commitments that we make in this manifesto.In education, that means that additional funding for schools through the PupilPremium will continue to be delivered throughout the next Parliament. Insteadof ring-fencing education, we are doing better than that by bringing in newmoney to fund the Pupil Premium.In health, our first priority will continue to be to increase spending in someparts of the NHS by cutting waste in others. We do not plan to make net cutsin spending on front-line health services.The cross-government economies needed to reduce the deficit such as onpay, pensions, and IT procurement will affect all departments, so it wouldsimply be dishonest to say that entire departmental budget can be ringfencedfrom cuts. For example, it is only because we refuse to ring-fencedepartments from the search for savings that we have been able to identifythe funds for the Pupil Premium and to protect frontline health services.The results of this spending review would be widely consulted on with thepublic sector and general public throughout the end of 2010 and beginning of2011. Based on this consultation a full spending review up to 2013–14 wouldbe published alongside the 2011 Budget.

