Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228070006.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Spending the Independence Dividend

Elsewhere in this manifesto, several additional demands on the national budget are proposed, funded from the Independence Dividend. The main items of expenditure and the approximate amounts are as indicated below.

An amount of £2 billion per year is budgeted for subsidies to agriculture. These will replace funding that is currently received under the Common Agricultural policy (CAP), and provide for the separate initiatives such as the Land Management Contract Scheme and other targeted assistance to agriculture and the countryside. To replace the grants that are currently received under the EU's structural funds, an amount of £1 billion per year is allocated for continuing support to regions of high unemployment.

In the UKIP's welfare provisions, the proposed increase of £5 per week in state pensions will cost £2.8 billion per year, and an amount of £0.5 billion is suggested for increased spending on care for the elderly and £0.3 billion to restore pension levels to ex-pat UK pensioners whose pensions have been frozen since leaving the UK.

The UKIP's main change to taxation is to reduce tax for the lower paid and to remove a further 1 million individuals out of tax altogether, at a cost of £1.4 billion per year. Other items of tax reform, in particular the reintroduction of the married person's tax allowance for families with children under 18, and reform of capital taxes, would absorb a further £1.3 billion.

We propose an increase in the annual NHS budget of £2 billion, and an additional sum of £0.5 billion to raise the income of nursing staff. Increasing the numbers of teachers by 30,000 in order to reduce class sizes and 25,000 more police will cost £1.2 billion and £0.8 billion per year respectively.

The UKIP proposes to reduce the taxation on petrol and diesel fuel by 40p per gallon (9p per litre) which would cost approximately £3.7 billion. Finally an increase of £2.5 billion per year is earmarked for additional spending on defence personnel and defence equipment.

Taken together, these additional expenditures amount to £20 billion per year, equal to the amount available from the Independence Dividend.

