Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_060075.txt

Press Release from Party: Con

News story
Jobs tax will kill the recovery
Friday, April 23 2010
David Cameron

Speaking with Philip Green at the Fashion Retail Academy, David Cameron outlined the dangers of the jobs tax and explained the role for the business in building the Big Society.

Commenting on the latest GDP figures, he said it was "good news that the economy is growing, but bad news that it's still only at 0.2%."

The big question sat the heart of this election, he said, are: "How do we get the economy moving? How do we get growth going? How do we make sure that growth is sustainable?".

He said there was a big choice on this issue. "Labour say the economy will collapse unless they keep on wasting your money. Then, when things start getting better they want to impose a thwacking great jobs tax".

"The Liberal Democrats say: well, they say a lot of things. First they said that the call from business to stop the jobs tax is nauseating. Then they said that the jobs tax is actually damaging and needs to be stopped, but they havent got a clue how to do it".

In contrast, he said, the Conservatives say: "this jobs tax will kill the recovery". Explaining why we will cut Labour's waste to stop their jobs tax, he said the other parties always forget that "Government isn't the same thing as the economy".

"Real growth only comes when make it easier for people like you to start a business, take people on and grow."

Cameron went on to speak about the important role business has in our society as well as our economy.

"I see business playing a part in strengthening families... I see business playing a part in tackling climate change... and I also see business playing a part in developing the skilled workforce of the future."

He also warned of about the effects of the indecision and paralysis that a hung parliament would bring, saying it is "exactly what our economy doesnt need right now".

"International investors would wonder whether Britain was able to deal with its debts, pushing up interest rates. Businesses would worry about even higher taxes, delaying much needed investment and destroying jobs."

"You know that any business will flounder without leadership and direction  the same is true for our economy. We have a phrase for it in politics already  no overall control. Well can you imagine an economy with a record budget deficit and rising unemployment where nobody is in control?"

Click here to read David's speech in full
Go to news

    Subscribe
    Print



