Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228050003.txt

Party Manifesto: Green (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

The Economy:Making it fair, making it work

The Green Party has plans to putthe country back to satisfyingand meaningful work
What we’ve seen over the past year is aneconomy in turmoil, leaking jobs and eatinginto pensions and savings. It’s so obvious thatbusiness as usual doesn’t work.We have tobuild a sustainable economy and society,otherwise there’s no future for anyone.Cutting investment now could lead to adouble-dip recession, while the Green NewDeal promises job security and economicstability.The financial system of Britain and the worldhas grown out of all proportion to the realeconomy it is supposed to serve. By buildingon easy credit and financial speculation, it haslost touch with its physical underpinnings.Casino capitalism has become more importantthan making things and providing services.Houses have become speculative investmentsinstead of somewhere to live.Part of being sustainable is being more equal.An unsustainable, polluting economy affectsus all, but it’s worse for the poor than therich – the poor live where the air and wateris most polluted, the environment least healthy.We have one planet, and the best way to takecare of it is to share its riches more fairly.No one must be so poor that they don’t havea stake in the eventual success of our efforts.We need policies for both sustainability andfairness – one doesn’t work without theother. That is why we argue for the samecarbon quota for all, better pensions and freeinsulation – because they are fair, and goodfor both people and planet.We must useresources wisely and divide them up fairly.Inequality in British society begins at birth,or even before, with low birth-weight andinfant and child mortality significantly higheramong economically disadvantaged groups.Around one in five children continue to livein low-income households. Children fromthese groups are less likely to complete GCSEsand A levels, and to attend universities.

Minority ethnic groups, lone parents, andpeople without formal qualifications have anunemployment rate of about double that forthe total working-age population. The richest1 per cent of households own more than 20per cent of Britain’s wealth. The grossinequalities continue throughout life, witharound 25 per cent of pensioners living inpoverty, and significant disparities in lifeexpectancy, particularly among men, associatedwith income. And inequality has risen inrecent years, most steeply under MrsThatcher’s Conservatives since 1979, beforedeclining a little in the early years of NewLabour, only to rise again in recent years.Inequality is not just wrong in itself. It makesus ill, causes us to die earlier, raises crimelevels, depresses educational achievement, andcreates stress and mental illness. New researchhas shown that more equal societies do better,and that equality – rather than simple averagewealth or even lack of poverty – is the mainroute to a better society for everyone, richand poor.Underpinning all this is green economics,which is the only realistic economics. Greensunderstand that we need a one-planet economythat uses no more than the resources it givesus, not the fantasy multi-planet economy of
