Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228070015.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

The Environment

Environmental policy is about empowerment - of local communities, businesses and individual citizens. The EU stands for the opposite: centralisation, crippling regulation, edicts by unaccountable officialdom. Recent history has shown us that centralisation has failed. The planned economies of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union were amongst the most polluted societies on Earth. The original ecology movement believed strongly in local control. Today's 'greens' support regulation on a grand scale. Often they seem to dislike people more than they love the planet. We would like to return to the environmental movement's founding principles: respect for diversity, accessible and transparent political institutions, local accountability and human responsibility for natural resources.

The UK Independence Party supports a balance between the needs of economic growth and environmental concern. Small and medium-sized businesses have a crucial role to play in environmental policy; because they serve local communities, it is in their interests to promote a healthy environment. The EU policy of imposing cumbersome directives and issuing contestant threats has proved to be counter-productive. Like excessive taxation, this encourages illegal behaviour rather than public service. The UKIP believes that free-market solutions to environmental problems work better than state control. Yet the market must operate against a background of pragmatic and fair regulation.

As the party of decentralisation, the UKIP believes that the enforcement structure for environmental regulations should be greatly simplified. Wherever possible, enforcement will be returned to local authorities, acting under the general direction and support of central agencies which answer to Parliament. The UKIP sees a link between sound environmental management and a return to democratic accountability at all levels.

Accordingly, UKIP policy is to encourage the development of well-equipped environmental monitoring teams answerable to local authorities. A primary function of these teams will be to detect and where possible prevent adverse health effects attributable to environmental pollution. In this context, The UKIP is concerned by the alarming rise in conditions such as asthma, the emergence of significant levels of childhood leukaemia and the number of unexplained clusters of previously rare cancers. We shall promote studies to determine the causes. There will be full local involvement in such studies to prevent cover-ups by central government.

The UKIP takes a free market approach to new housing and industrial growth. Nonetheless, we are concerned about the concentration of development in the South East of England. This problem will be partially relieved by a modern, efficient communications network and transport system that will make other areas more attractive to investors. Those regions such as the South-West and North-East that currently receive EU structural funds will have this support continued from the national budget, to the extent deemed appropriate by our elected government, when Britain leaves the EU.

The UKIP takes note of public opposition to Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) and the failure of government to respond adequately to those concerns. This is because the British government has become subservient to the Biotech corporations and EU bureaucrats who support them. The UKIP will protect absolutely the consumer and organic farmer from genetically modified products and will enforce the clearest possible labelling giving consumers the choice of food constituents and their source. It is wrong that important issues like these are decided by the unelected European Commission. As another example, The Commission is planning a massive increase in the testing of chemicals on animals, a situation which has been condemned as unnecessary by scientists and the chemicals industry. However, the British Parliament will have no say in this decision. Only outside the EU will a free Britain be able to decide its own policy on these important issues.

Finally, turning to carbon dioxide emissions, whilst their effects on global warming remain unclear, the continuing use of fossil fuels undoubtedly impairs the long-term quality of life on our planet. We will therefore encourage and support private initiatives in developing energy production from renewable sources - biofuels, wave, wind, solar and hydrogen technologies, with the objective being that these sources should eventually provide for a substantial percentage of our energy consumption.

