Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228070004.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Regulatory Reform

In addition to the gains derived from free global trade, another substantial benefit that becomes possible on leaving the EU is the removal of a whole range of damaging and unnecessary regulations.

The guiding principle of the EU, as set out in the treaties, is centralised control. The treaties give the European Commission the task of creating regulations and directives in the areas of health and safety, the environment, employment, and the single market. And while the European Parliament provides a façade of democracy, our own national parliament merely rubber-stamps all the rules before they are passed in UK law, often with extra 'gold-plating' by our own officials. This process has given rise to some 25,000 separate UK regulations since 1973, and few business and activities escape.

There is no point in pretending that we can pick and choose between EU regulations, or that we can 'negotiate' and 'opt out'. Even where we have successfully resisted EU laws, the EU Commission brings them back in another form.

One example of a senseless EU rule is compulsory metrication. The UKIP is not against traders using metric units, but we believe in choice. It cannot be right to make criminals out of people who choose to weigh vegetables in pounds and ounces. As another example, the spread of foot and mouth disease has been made much worse by the large distances that animals now have to travel. This is a direct consequence of the closure of hundreds of small abattoirs because they could not afford the new and evidently ineffective veterinary inspection rules.

The destructive effect that this flood of regulations has on employment is obvious. Regulation inevitably adds costs to business, and most of all it damages the smaller businesses that provide for two-thirds of British jobs. Regulation hurts family firms, the self-employed, co-operatives and ethnic minority businesses. Employment regulations in particular interfere with job creation, especially part-time jobs which offer opportunities to women, the under-25s and older workers. The bureaucratic burden associated with regulation has also become intolerable. According to the Federation of Small Businesses, businesses with 10-14 employees are now spending thirty-one hours per month on paperwork.

In contrast to the small business sector, large corporations are far better able to cope with regulation. Indeed they have the power to lobby the Brussels Commission to frame laws that are favourable to them. This is why many multi-nationals support the euro and want an EU superstate. It suits their interests to divide the world into regional power blocs. National governments and different legal systems are inconveniences they could do without.

The UKIP is not 'against' multi-nationals. On the contrary, we welcome their contribution to the economy. But we seek a trading environment in which small and medium sized businesses are allowed to compete fairly. We are for independence, diversity and choice, not regulation, bureaucracy and conformity.

On withdrawal from the EU, the UK Independence Party will make a 'bonfire' of inappropriate regulations. And recognising the contribution that smaller employers make to the UK economy, we would pay particular attention to scrapping unnecessary rules from businesses employing fewer than 20 people. Freed from excessive rules and red tape, business enterprise will thrive and the UKIP believes this will lead to a marked improvement in employment.

The UKIP accepts that some regulation is necessary in any civilised society, for instance to balance the rights (and responsibilities) of workers and employers. But laws must be respected, easily understood and sympathetically applied, otherwise they invite corruption and dishonesty.

In particular, the UKIP insists that British law must be designed by our own elected representatives at national or local levels, using our own established democratic procedures. We must never again allow the power to make our laws to be placed in the hands of an autocratic machine over which we have no control.

