Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040060.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


KFC Halal Menu: Finger Lickin Profitable
March 26, 2010

KFCIt would appear there are no depths to which certain companies will not stoop in order to make a fast buck, as Kentucky Fried Chickens (KFC) decision to trial halal products in some of its outlets demonstrates.

According to KFC, they are listening to their customers within communities where they anticipate a strong demand for halal products and hence  profits.

In their advertising blurb, KFC goes on to claim that their halal certified chicken will also meet the rigorous animal welfare standards employed in the UK. This is a piece of sanitising nonsense for the gullible, as any slaughter not in line with the law of the land would be illegal.

The statement makes no mention that halal slaughter is a legal exception to the law, enacted for political reasons  an exception that goes against the spirit of humane slaughter enshrined within the appropriate Acts of Parliament.

KFC also claims to have consulted leading, but unnamed, animal welfare groups about ritual slaughter.

Who are these leading animal welfare groups and why the apparent reticence in naming them?

Evidently they do not include Compassion in World Farming, VIVA or the Farm Animal Welfare Association, the latter advising that the process must end as it involves severe suffering to animals here.

KFC also says that they have worked with the Halal Food Authority to understand the requirements involved in supplying and producing halal approved products and are, apparently, delighted that the HFA have certified KFCs products in these stores, and the store environments, as halal.

No doubt KFCs shareholders are equally delighted.

KFC appears unaware that we British have a reputation for being opposed to animal abuse in all its vile forms; ritual slaughter being the most prolific manifestation of animal abuse practiced in Britain today. It is unnecessary cruelty inflicted upon millions of animals every year.

We dont want foreign companies promoting imported barbarities in our country.

However, the good news is that KFC is soliciting the views of its customers on this shameful exploitative development, full details of which, including a comment facility, can be found here.

Posted in National News | Comments (243)

