Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060026.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------


Change politics

change politics | introduction

A new agenda for a new politics
The Conservative Party has led the way in sorting out the mess of MPs’ expenses. In governmentwe will go further, by cutting the size of Parliament, cutting the scope of Whitehall, and cuttingthe cost of politics. We will make politics more local, more transparent and more accountable.We intend to build a new political system that serves people rather than politicians. Together,we can change our politics for the better.

The events of recent months have revealed the size of the fissures in our political system.Millions of people in this country are at best detached from democracy, at worst angry anddisillusioned. This endangers our ability to work together to solve our common problems. Justputting this down to the shocking revelations of the expenses scandal would be a great mistake.MPs’ expenses might have been the trigger for the public’s anger, but this political crisis is drivenby a deeper sense of frustration – that people have too little control over the decisions that affecttheir daily lives.The top-down model of power that exists in Britain today is completely out of date. Theargument that has applied for well over a century – that in every area of life we need people atthe centre to make sense of the world for us and take decisions on our behalf – has collapsed. Wenow live in an age when technology can put information that was previously held by a few intothe hands of the many. This is an age of personal freedom and choice, when culture and debate areshaped by a multitude of voices. But politics has not caught up with this new age. Instead of givingpeople more power over their lives, we have a government intent on taking it away.We believe in people power – and today the information revolution gives us the practical toolsto realise that philosophy. So we plan to change Britain with a sweeping redistribution of power:from the state to citizens; from the government to Parliament; from Whitehall to communities;from Brussels to Britain; from bureaucracy to democracy. Taking power away from the politicalelite and handing it to the man and woman in the street. Using decentralisation, accountabilityand transparency, we will weaken the old political elites, give people power, fix our broken politicsand restore people’s faith that if we act together things can change. This is a new agenda fora new politics.
