Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060007.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

change the economy | ENSURE MACROECONOMIC STABILITY

Ensure macroeconomic stability
We will safeguard Britain’s credit rating with a credible plan to eliminate the bulk of the structuraldeficit over a Parliament. Our fiscal policy will help keep interest rates lower for longer. Theindependent Bank of England will continue to target 2 per cent CPI inflation, and will use its newrole in prudential supervision to preserve financial stability.

After a decade of mismanagement, the UKentered the recession in poor shape, with thesecond biggest budget deficit in the developedworld. We have been honest about the scale ofthe problem, and the actions we will need totake to deal with it. This will not be easy, butwe can overcome our problems if we all pulltogether.The absence of a credible plan to deal with ourrecord budget deficit, the largest of any majoreconomy, is creating uncertainty over Britain’scredit rating and interest rates. This instabilityundermines confidence and jeopardisesinvestment. It could tip Britain back intorecession. This is Gordon Brown’s legacy –and why the greatest risk to our economicrecovery is five more years of Gordon Brown.Urgent action to reduce debt
Urgent action is needed if we are to avoid thehigher borrowing costs that would inevitablyfollow from a credit rating downgrade. Sowe will cut wasteful government spendingto bring the deficit down and restore stability.We will increase spending on health in realterms every year and honour our commitmentson international aid, but our plan to get a gripon the deficit will include cuts to wastefulspending in many other departmental budgets.That will enable the independent Bank ofEngland to keep interest rates as low as possiblefor as long as possible.To ensure that no Labour government canever attempt to bankrupt our public financesagain, we will set up an independent Officefor Budget Responsibility to restore trust inthe government’s ability to manage the publicfinances.We will provide an emergency Budget within50 days of taking office to set out a credibleplan for eliminating the bulk of the structuralcurrent budget deficit over a Parliament. Thecase for starting early to re-establish oureconomic credibility is overwhelming, and isbacked by economists and business leaders.
We will start by cutting a net £6 billion ofwasteful departmental spending in the financialyear 2010/11. In addition, we will make thefollowing savings:freeze public sector • pay for one year in2011, excluding the one million lowest paidworkers;• hold a review to bring forward the date atwhich the state pension age starts to rise to66, although it will not be sooner than 2016for men and 2020 for women;• stop paying tax credits to better-off familieswith incomes over £50,000;• cut government contributions to Child TrustFunds for all but the poorest third of familiesand families with disabled children;• cap public sector pensions above £50,000;• cut Ministers’ pay by 5 per cent, followed bya five year freeze; and,• reduce the number of MPs by 10 per cent.Over the course of a Parliament, we will cutWhitehall policy, funding and regulationcosts by a third, saving £2 billion a year, andsave a further £1 billion a year from quangobureaucracy.

Cut government waste to stop Labour’s jobs tax
Labour are planning to increase NationalInsurance in 2011. Anyone earning over£20,000 will pay more tax, and employerswill pay more tax on all jobs paid over £5,700.This jobs tax, which will hit small businessesespecially hard, will kill off the recovery.Experts predict it will cost 57,000 jobs in smalland medium-sized businesses alone.At the same time, Labour will not take action tocut waste in government. They have identified£11 billion pounds of waste, but they do notplan to start dealing with it until April 2011.So Labour will continue wasting money whileputting up taxes on working people.We will act immediately to cut governmentwaste so we can stop the most damaging part ofthe National Insurance rise for employers andfor anyone earning under £35,000.We will make the following changes in April2011, relative to Labour’s plans:• raise the primary threshold for NationalInsurance by £24 a week and raise the UpperEarnings Limit by £29 a week; and,• raise the secondary threshold at whichemployers start paying National Insuranceby £21 a week.
Seven out of ten working people – thoseearning between £7,100 and £45,400 – andalmost every employer will save up to £150a year per person compared to under Labour.Lower earners will get the greatest benefit asa percentage of their earnings. Nobody will beworse off as a result of these changes.Our plans are backed by many of Britain’s topbusiness leaders, who between them employmore than half a million people, as well as byBritain’s leading business organisations.To pay for this we will take immediate actionto cut a net £6 billion of wasteful departmentalspending in the financial year 2010/11, withfurther savings in future years. This is inaddition to the savings made by cutting taxcredits and Child Trust Funds for betterofffamilies.These actions will allow us to reduce thedeficit more quickly than Labour year-on-yearwhile avoiding the most damaging part oftheir jobs tax. It will also lower the proportionof the reduction of the structural deficit thatis accounted for by tax increases, from aboutone third towards one fifth. This is in linewith international best practice, as well as theTreasury’s own internal analysis.Former government advisers Sir Peter Gershonand Dr Martin Read have advised us thatsavings of £12 billion across all departmentalspending are possible in-year without affecting
the quality of frontline services. These areover and above any savings already planned byLabour. We will achieve this through:a freeze on major • new Information andCommunications Technologies (ICT)spending;• immediate negotiations to achieve costreductions from major suppliers;• tighter control of public sector recruitment;• reductions in discretionary spending,including travel, expenses, advertising,consultancy and office supplies; and,• reductions in public sector property costs.We will match Labour’s spending plans for2010/11 in health and overseas aid. Given ourcommitment to carry out a Strategic Defenceand Security Review, it would also not beappropriate to make in-year reductions to theexisting defence budget in 2010/11. Savingsin these protected areas will be channelledback into frontline services. The net £6 billionof savings will be made from the remainingdepartmental budgets.
