Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228070003.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

The Economy

Free Trade and Globalisation

When Britain leaves the European Union, we shall be able to take full advantage of trading opportunities throughout the world, and not just in Europe. With its external tariff barriers, the EU prevents us from trading freely and fairly on the world stage, particularly in agricultural products. The UK Independence Party supports genuine free trade.

Britain is the world's fourth largest economy and the second largest global investor (after the United States). It can hardly be said that we are 'too small to survive alone'. Britain is also head of the Commonwealth - the largest international club except for the UN itself. This international grouping includes a quarter of the world's population. It is a free association of independent nations which share our language, culture and approach to business. This is a far better model for international relations than the centralised, increasingly tyrannical EU.

Through the Commonwealth, Britain has links with some of the world's fastest growing economies, such as those of the Indian subcontinent. Our relationship with the United States remains unique. These connections equip us to take advantage of global opportunities. EU membership, by contrast, holds us back in the world - it locks us into an over-regulated system based on the principle of 'the state knows best'.

When Britain leaves the EU, we need not fear that our trade with the European Union would cease. On the contrary, since we continually buy more from our European neighbours than we sell to them, it would not be in their interests to reduce their trading links with us. Moreover those who claim that our Japanese and other inward investors would leave should bear in mind that access via Britain to European markets is not the only reason why they are here. Other strong reasons are our language, our business methods, and our flexible labour force. Indeed, the opportunities resulting from a more prosperous EU-free world-trading Britain, will be a magnet to new investment both from outside and within the UK.

Since our entry to the 'Community' in 1973, the UK, a global economy, has been unable to negotiate any trade deals with the rest of the world. Freedom from the EU means that Britain can act as a force for good in the world. As a powerful and independent economy, we would be entitled to our seat at the World Trade Organisation and in a position to help shape its policies so that there is more genuine free trade, and less protectionism on behalf of big companies or rich countries.

Outside the EU, we can build strong trading relationships with the rest of the world, including Commonwealth countries and the North American Free Trade Area. It is ironic that the European Commission could negotiate with - or even join - NAFTA. Britain cannot make such decisions because Tory and Labour governments have signed our sovereignty away.

The UKIP is the only party to support free and fair trade for a free country.

