Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030135.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

Martin Bell supports BBC court action
Mon, 26/04/2010 - 15:22

Former BBC correspondent and Independent MP Martin Bell has today (Mon)
supported the SNP's proposed court action to ensure the final election
leaders' debate hosted by the BBC in Birmingham this Thursday is fair
and balanced.

Mr Bell, who worked for the Corporation for 35 years and was
Independent MP for Tatton from 1997 to 2001, said the exclusion of the
SNP and Plaid Cymru from the UK debates was "profoundly unfair", and
called on broadcasters to ensure the parties are properly included in
any debates in future Westminster election campaigns.

Commenting Mr Bell said
 
"I believe the election leaders'
debates have been a great innovation, and are helping voters engage in
the democratic process.
 
"But at the same time, the exclusion of
the SNP and Plaid Cymru has been profoundly unfair to those parties -
especially given the way the TV debates are so clearly dominating all
media coverage of the election.

"And I believe that in future a better balance will have to be
found to make sure that these parties are included and not squeezed out,
as they have been in this campaign.
 
"I support the action
being taken by the SNP in relation to the party's proposed legal
challenge, as the issue is one of such fundamental democratic
importance."

Welcoming Mr Bell's support, SNP Westminster leader Angus
Robertson said:
 
"Martin Bell's backing for our action to ensure
Scotland is properly represented in the final UK leaders' debate is
extremely welcome.

"As a former senior BBC broadcaster and an Independent MP, his
reputation for fair play and impartiality is second to none.
 
"We
want this week's BBC leaders' debate in Birmingham to be broadcast
across the UK on a fair basis, with Scotland properly represented in
line with the Corporation's duty of fairness, and that is the basis of
our planned action at the Court of Session.

"This issue is not just simply about the inclusion of the SNP and
Plaid Cymru in these debates but also about the voters of Scotland and
Wales being excluded from having the opportunity to question the leaders
of the London-based parties."
Filed under:

    Elections
    SNP


