Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228010013.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

Creating Long-Term Prosperity

We will change the ways in which economic policy is made and implemented, to bring greater stability and a sensible framework to economic management - ending the present 'boom, bust' approach. This requires fuller integration with the European Community.

Our key changes are:
>P>

    Establishing an operationally independent Bank of England to become the Central Bank of the UK, to ensure disciplined economic management, to end political manipulation of the economy and to form the rock upon which a long-term anti-inflationary strategy can be built. This will also help progress towards an independent European Central Bank.
    Moving sterling to the narrow band of the European Exchange Rate Mechanism as sson as possible, helping stable progress towards lower interest rates.
    Taxes and public spending to be set to reach a 'savings target' for the nation over a period of years. We will set a target as a total of private- and public-sector savings, and adjust fiscal policy to achieve the target over the medium term. If the country does not save enough to achieve the target, we will alter taxes and public spending accordingly, to ensure adequate longt-term investment and keep the economy developing in a non-inflationary way. We will encourage individual savings by giving tax relief on all income piad into new Registered Savings Account.
    Reform of the annual Budget. We will publish a draft Budget four months before the final version, to promote open discussion of economic and taxation and policy. This will facilitate the integration of spending and revenue-raising, a measure we have long advocated. This will also make it easier to measure the impact of economic policy on the environment. We will establish an indpendent National Statistics Commission to collect and publish statistics and improve their quality.
    Working towards European economic and monetary union, including the establishment of an independent European Central Bank and a single European currency. We will renounce the Conservatives' Maastricht 'opt-out' clause, accept the timetabled approach to EMU, and renegotiate the Social Chapter with a positive British input.

Changing the Economy for Good

Liberal Democrats recognise that if we are to improve Britain's disappointing economic performance we have to change the governmental system which produces it. Our proposals for electoral and constitutional reform are a prerequisite for better economic performance.

Proportional representation will produce greater stability in government, ending the economic disruption caused by sudden sharp swings in government policies before and after elections. Home rule and decentralisation will ensure that economic power and prosperity is spread through Britain. Integration within Europe will create the framework for long-term economic strength. Freedom of information legislation and open government will improve competition and encourage informed debate. A written constitution will ensure that politicians can no longer ignore long-term priorities for short-term expediency and political advantage.

