Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040135.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Will British Troops Guard Banks Multi-Billion Dollar Asian Investment?
April 13, 2010

WestminsterxNext weekends meeting in the Turkmenistan capital Ashkhabad between ministers from the governments of Turkmenistan, Afghanistan, Pakistan and India (TAPI) to discuss the building of a proposed gas pipeline could see a further escalation of the Afghanistan war in terms of which British troops might be deployed to protect that private project from Taliban attacks.

The TAPI project is being sponsored by the Asian Development Bank, whose major shareholders are the governments of Japan, America, Australia, Canada, Korea, Germany, France, Britain, China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Pakistan and Thailand.

The pipeline will supposedly transport Caspian Sea natural gas from Turkmenistan through Afghanistan into Pakistan and then to India and is due to become operational by 2014.

The projects steering committee was informed in April 2008 by the Afghan government that the proposed pipeline route would be cleared of both landmines and insurgents.

As this route follows the Herat to Kandahar highway, it inevitably means that a substantial stretch of it will have to cross Helmand Province, a major centre of Taliban operations.

The launch of Operation Moshtarak earlier this year, which focussed on pacifying Helmand Province, is seen as the Afghan government and its Western partners making good on this undertaking ahead of next weekends meeting.

Until the proposed route is secured, few governments are likely to commit themselves to this multi-billion dollar undertaking in what is a war zone.

More scandalous is the suggestion that British and other NATO troops will be used to defend this private commercial enterprise.

In June 2008, the Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives published a document entitled A Pipeline Through a Troubled Land: Afghanistan, Canada and the New Great Game which resulted in a large number of claims and counter claims in the Canadian press.

Canadas Minister of National Defence, Peter MacKay, was forced to admit that Canadian troops were not there specifically to protect a pipeline across Afghanistan, but, he said, If the Taliban were attacking certain places in the country or certain projects, then yes we will play a role.

More interesting still was the comment made Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, then NATO Secretary General, in January of last year.

He said: Protecting pipelines is first and foremost a national responsibility. And it should stay like that. NATO is not in the business of protecting pipelines. But when theres a crisis, or if a certain nation asks for assistance, NATO could, I think, be instrumental in protecting pipelines on land.

This suggests that British and other NATO troops could be utilised for long-term pipeline guarding duties should the Afghan government request them to do so.

As many of the Asian Development Banks major shareholders are the nations who have troops deployed in Afghanistan, there will be a natural crossover of interests at work.

The United States governments involvement is on behalf of a number of major US energy and engineering corporations while the British governments representation fulfils a similar role for other commercial interests, even though the $1.1 billion UK share was funded through Britains foreign aid budget.

If agreement is reached at the meeting this weekend for the project to proceed, then it will become an almost foregone conclusion that British and Western troops will be assigned to pipeline security duties to protect the pipeline.

This means that despite what the Tory and Labour parties say, British troops are likely to be committed to Afghanistan for decades to come, at a cost of untold billions to the taxpayer and the incalculable loss of our soldiers lives.

The British National Party alone has seen through media and Westminster lies about the real reasons for the war in Afghanistan and is diametrically opposed to further participation in that conflict.

The BNP has not the slightest intention of endangering the lives of our service personnel in what is little more than a commercial enterprise and would bring our troops home immediately.

Posted in National News | Comments (31)

