Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030151.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

Cameron exposes Tory unpopularity
Wed, 28/04/2010 - 15:02

Commenting on David Camerons desperate remarks about the Tories lack of
popularity in Scotland - where he said the  Conservative Party doesn't
always do brilliantly in Scotland - the SNP's election co-ordinator
Stewart Hosie said:

The more SNP MPs are elected next week, the stronger Scotlands
voice will be  working on a case by case, issue by issue basis to
promote Scottish interests, and no deal of any kind with either
Tweedledum, Tweedledee, or TweedleDem.

The issue the Tories have dodged throughout this campaign is their
plot, along with Labour and the Lib Dems, not just to cut Scotlands
budget but then to impose a Cameron cut by slashing Scotlands budget
share.

The Tories anti-Scottish plan is a disastrous prospect  and is
proving equally disastrous for their ratings.  The Cameron cut plot
has destroyed the Tory campaign north of the Border.

George
Osborne has now effectively confirmed that the Tories are proposing an
extra cut just for Scotland, without the consent of the Scottish
Government or people, and without any reference to the revenue raised in
Scotland, such as the more than 40 billion of oil revenues flowing to
the Treasury over the next few years.

More nats mean less cuts  protecting our frontline services
from the London parties cuts agenda by cutting the things we neither
need nor want such as Trident, ID cards and nuclear dumps, and charting
an alternative constitutional course for Scotland.

ENDS

Note:

1. Scotland is in a stronger financial
position than the UK as a whole.  The official Government Expenditure
and Revenue Scotland (GERS) figures show that Scotland ran current
budget surpluses in each of the three years to 2007/08, worth 2.3
billion in all.  In contrast, the UK recorded a deficit of 24 billion
over the same period.

2. First Minister Alex Salmond has again written to the
Conservative Party Shadow Chancellor George Osborne, on the specific
question raised by Mr Salmond that the Conservatives are proposing to
undertake a needs assessment in relation to changing the Barnett
Formula, with no commitment to seeking the consent of the Scottish
Government before introducing a change to the funding arrangements for
the Scottish Budget.

The Conservative Partys intentions in government were first
indicated at a meeting in London on 30 March, during a series of
meetings the First Minister had with the Chancellor of the Exchequer and
Shadow Chancellors of the UK parties.

The First Minister wrote to Mr Osborne on 1 April seeking a clear
commitment to consent, but the reply received from Mr Osborne entirely
ignored the issue of the need for Scottish Government consent before
introducing a change to the funding arrangements for the Scottish
Budget, and merely said: Thank you for your letter regarding the
Scottish Budget.  I enjoyed our meeting and I hope we can continue this
productive relationship in a spirit of mutual respect.

3. Since then, David Cameron has also said he would slash spending
in areas of the UK such as Northern Ireland and North East England. Link
Filed under:

    Elections
    SNP


