Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030191.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

'Gray day' as even members doubt Labour
Wed, 05/05/2010 - 13:28

Commenting after Iain Grays appearance on BBC Radio Scotlands Call
Kaye programme where even a Labour member doubted Labours commitments
and previous supporters said they didnt know what they would vote, the
SNPs campaign co-ordinator Stewart Hosie said it was another clear
example of how the disastrous Labour campaign south of the border had
spread north.

The Holyrood Labour leader was under pressure as he had to admit
that it was the strength of the (SNP funded) public sector in Scotland
which had helped Scotland come out of recession and Labour had made a
raft of mistakes in office.

Commenting Mr Hosie said:

"Labours is not only losing the
support of their own candidates but todays Radio programme highlighted
how even Labour  members, as well as longterm  supporters, are having
serious doubts about voting Labour.

We now have Labour members as well as voters seeing that Labour
cannot win this election. They know that the SNP is best placed to
defend Scotland if England votes Tory again.

"Voters are
responding positively to our call to elect local and national champions
so we can protect jobs and vital public services.

"They are appalled by Tory plans to steal Scotland's money by
ripping up the funding deal between our nations without the consent of
the Scottish Government or Scottish people.

"The Tories, if they
become the government, have told us they will use every Labour and
LibDem vote in Scotland to justify their right to  impose this cut.

"Scotland needs SNP champions more than ever after this election and
it is only the SNP which can defend Scotland from the Tories  and even
Labour members are beginning to realize that."

Notes

Comments
from the programme are as follows:

Jack in Glasgow said:

"I'm a Labour party member and
supporter. Have been for 30 years. I'm actually quite ashamed of the
attack the Labour party is doing on the sick  and unemployed."

Jimmy in Lennoxtown:

"I'm 73 years old and
I've voted Labour all my life, since I was able to vote. Except once in
the early 1980's when I voted Margaret Thatcher into power, much to my
regret...I haven't got a clue who I am going to vote for you know. And
I've voted Labour all life. I haven't a clue who I'm going to vote for
this time...

"...I phoned Rosemary McKenna's office in Cumbernauld in November
about a  local issue - an important local issue as far as villagers are
concerned and I was told they would be back in touch, and Im still
waiting for that call. So if that's the way they are going to treat
their voters why the hell should we give them our vote?"

Bill in Blackburn said:

"I would just
like to pass comment and ask Iain Gray if he would reconsider the
comment he made to the chap from Glasgow who works for the cleansing
department. That he was certainly talking to him and not listening to
him. That is the biggest problem with the Labour party at the moment...

"...I'm a lifelong supporter of the Labour party and this attitude
is coming more and more to the fore. That is the reason the Labour party
is in the state it is in. It has stopped listening to the people that
are their core support...They're treating the electorate of Scotland and
the electorate of the UK with contempt...

"...We are faced with a scenario in Scotland and the Scottish
Parliament where the Labour party are still in a tantrum about the fact
they lost power...and now we've got the scenario where everything that
happens, it doesn't matter whether its a dog crossing a road and
causing a traffic accident, it's the fault of the SNP Government...

"...I'll be perfectly honest with you Kaye, and for the first time
in my life I'm undecided as to how I am going to vote. And I still
havent decided. And certainly to hear leading Labour politicians in
Scotland making comments like that to a working chap in Glasgow. It
certainly doesn't bode well for my intentions in the future."
Filed under:

    Elections
    SNP


