Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228050018.txt

Party Manifesto: Green (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

Here we use the example of lesbian, gay,bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI)issues to illustrate this general policy in moredetail. Other areas of discrimination are equallyimportant and will have their own emphases.LGBTI issuesWe would:• Amend the Equalities Bill/Act to provideexplicit protection against harassment ofLGBTI people.• Require all police forces to have equalityand diversity liaison officers whose remitis to tackle, and take preventive action on,crimes against LGBTI people, people fromethnic minorities (including refugees andasylum seekers) and disabled people.• Legally target incitement of hatred onthe grounds of gender identity and amendthe Equality Bill/Act to provide explicitprotection against harassment of LGBTIpeople.• Open up civil marriages and civilpartnerships, without discrimination,to both same-sex and opposite-sex couples.• End the blanket, lifetime ban on gay andbisexual blood donors.• Campaign for homophobic, transphobicand racist crimes, and crimes againstdisabled people, including people withlearning difficulties, to be dealt witheffectively and on a par with racist crimes.• Ensure legal parity for parents and thosewishing to become parents regardless ofsexual orientation, and equality of provisionof maternity services; lobby for widelyavailable, affordable state-funded creches.• Push for the rewriting of the MentalHealth Act to remove trans people fromthe Psychiatric Disorder Register.• Campaign against any reduction in theAIDS/HIV budget and target healthpromotion work to prevent sexuallytransmitted infections.• Ensure safe haven and refugee status forLGBTI people fleeing persecution in linewith other social groups according to theGeneva Convention.• Refuse visas and work permits to ‘murdermusic’ singers and others who incite homophobicand transphobic violence.• Oppose all opt-outs from equality and anti-discriminationlaws by religious organisationsand remove special treatment allowing faithschools to promote homophobia on thegrounds of religion.• Provide comprehensive training forteachers and educational staff on all diversityand inclusion issues; schools to promoteequal opportunities in their anti-bullyingprocedures; equality issues to be monitoredin teaching recruitment.• Support the human rights strugglesof LGBTI movements in oppressive statessuch as Jamaica, Iran, Uganda, Malawi, Iraq,Nigeria, Zimbabwe and Russia.

Other areas of discrimination
