Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228010031.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

Developing Global Prosperity

A secure, democratic and peaceful world can never be created while so much of the globe remains so desperately poor. Britain must play its part in developing prosperity, protecting the world environment, eradicating poverty, famine and disease, and promoting human rights and international cooperation.

This will include:

    Increasing overseas aid to reach the UN target of 0.7% of GNP over five years. We will increase aid especially to democratic countries carrying out policies which benefit the poorest, are environmentally sustainable and respect human rights. We will raise the proportion of aid given as grants instead of loans and place greater emphasis on supporting small-scale, community-based, labour-intensive projects. We will promote closer European cooperation, to make the best use of national and Community aid, and avoid wasteful duplication. We will rejoin UNESCO.
    Ending the commercialisation of aid which the current Government has practised and which substantially reduces its value to the world's poorest. We will reduce the proportion of UK aid tied to the purchase of UK goods and services and ensure that help to British exports is solely a function of the Department of Trade and Industry, rather than the ODA.
    Encouraging environmentally sustainable development. This includes the transfer of appropriate technology, the development of sustainable agriculture and forestry, sustainable use policies for the tropical rain forests and and projects to prevent desertification, and the promotion of energy conservation and renewable energy schemes. We will provide technical help to develop methods of resource accounting and environmental and ensure that measures of sustainability are incorporated in decisions on development projects and programmes.
    Urgent action to tackle the growth in the world's population. Having doubled in the past fifty years to five billion, the world's population is expected to increase by a further one billion in the 1990s alone. We will give priority to support for family-planning programmes, education and employment opportunities for women, and basic provisino for old age.
    Reform of the world trading and financial systems. We see the successful conclusion of the Uruguay round of the GATT world trade talks as an urgent priority. Global prosperity also requires the reversal of the net flow of resources from the global South. We will press the EC to coordinate international action to resolve the debt crisis, including reducing government-to-government debt, introducint regulatory and tax regimes to encourage commercial banks to reduce or write off debt, extending eligibility to IMF and World Bank loans, and encouraging, where appropriate, debt for development and debt for environment swaps. We will press for the progressive reduction of all tariff and non-tariff trade barriers, and in particular the removal of unfair trading barriers against developing countries.

