Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228010005.txt

Party Manifesto: LibDem (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

your money. LiberalDemocrats want to makethe tax and benefits systemfair, so that everyone, bethey young or old, canafford to get by.

fair taxes and fair benefits to help every familyget byLiberal Democrats want to make the tax and benefits system fair, so thateveryone, be they young or old, can afford to get by. We have plans for themost radical, far-reaching tax reforms in a generation.These changes are desperately needed. Conservative and Labourgovernments have changed Britain into one of the most unequal societiesin the developed world, where ordinary people struggle to make ends meetwhile the richest benefit from tax breaks. The poorest fifth of the populationpay a higher proportion of their income in tax than the richest fifth.We set out in this manifesto a clear plan to bring the budget back undercontrol, being honest about the tough choices we need to take. We will cuttaxes for millions of working people and pensioners, paid for by makingsure that the very wealthy pay their fair share and that polluting air travel isproperly taxed. We will boost the state pension by immediately restoringthe link with earnings growth.tax fairness for everyoneUnder a Liberal Democrat government, you will not have to pay any incometax on the first £10,000 you earn. This will put £700 back into the pocketsof millions of people on low and middle incomes and free 3.6 million morepeople on low incomes from having to pay any income tax at all. In this way,we will help people who are struggling to make ends meet and provide anincentive to work and save.This change will be paid for by:• Giving tax relief on pensions only at the basic rate, so that everyonegets the same tax relief on their pension contributions.
• Taxing capital gains at the same rates as income, so that all themoney you make is taxed in the same way.• Tackling tax avoidance and evasion, with new powers for HMRevenue & Customs and a law to ensure properties can’t avoid stampduty if they are put into an offshore trust.• Ensuring pollution is properly taxed by replacing the per-passenger AirPassenger Duty with a per-plane duty (PPD), ensuring that air freightis taxed for the first time. We will also introduce an additional, higherrate of PPD on domestic flights if realistic alternative and less pollutingtravel is available.• Introducing a Mansion Tax at a rate of 1 per cent on properties worthover £2 million, paid on the value of the property above that level.In addition we will reform the system of ‘non-domiciled’ status, allowingpeople to hold such status for up to seven years; after that time they willbecome subject to tax on all offshore income in the same way as domiciledBritish citizens.dealing with the deficitThe health of the economy depends on the health of the country’s finances.Public borrowing has reached unsustainable levels, and needs to be broughtunder control to protect the country’s economic future.A Liberal Democrat government will be straight with people about the toughchoices ahead. Not only must waste be eliminated, but we must also be boldabout finding big areas of spending that can be cut completely. That way wecan control borrowing, protect the services people rely on most and still findsome money to invest in building a fair future for everyone.We have already identified over £15 billion of savings in government spendingper year, vastly in excess of the £5 billion per year that we have set asidefor additional spending commitments. All our spending commitments will befunded from this pool of identified savings, with all remaining savings used toreduce the deficit.We must ensure the timing is right. If spending is cut too soon, it wouldundermine the much-needed recovery and cost jobs. We will base the timingof cuts on an objective assessment of economic conditions, not politicaldogma. Our working assumption is that the economy will be in a stableenough condition to bear cuts from the beginning of 2011–12.

Through making tough choices, as well as increasing efficiency and reducingbureaucracy across government, our savings will include:• Setting a £400 pay rise cap for all public sector workers, initially fortwo years, ensuring that the lowest paid are eligible for the biggestpercentage rise.• Restricting tax credits.• Ending government payments into Child Trust Funds.• Introducing a Banking Levy so that banks pay for the financial supportthey have received, until such time as they can be split up in order toinsulate retail banking from investment risks.• Scrapping ID cards and the next generation of biometric passports.• Cancelling Eurofighter Tranche 3b.• Scaling back HomeBuy schemes.• Reforming prisons, including through reducing the number of shortsentences.• Cutting back burdensome regulation of local authorities.Further details of our savings, including a number of smaller savingsitems, can be found in the tables annexed to the chapter on Credible andResponsible Finances on page 96.In the longer term, as part of a Comprehensive Spending Review (CSR)involving wide consultation, we will seek to identify additional savings whichcan be used to pay down the deficit further. These will include:• Saying no to the like-for-like replacement of the Trident nuclearweapons system, which could cost £100 billion. We will hold a fulldefence review to establish the best alternative for Britain’s futuresecurity.• Reforming public sector pensions to ensure that they are sustainableand affordable for the long term, with an independent review to agreea settlement that is fair for all taxpayers as well as for public servants.• Better government IT procurement, investigating the potential ofdifferent approaches such as cloud computing and open-sourcesoftware.• A wholesale review of value for money in the public sector based onthe findings of the National Audit Office and the House of CommonsPublic Accounts Committee.We will establish a Council on Financial Stability, involving representatives ofall parties, the Governor of the Bank of England and the Chair of the FinancialServices Authority. This group would agree the timeframe and scale of adefi cit reduction plan to set the framework (not the detail) for the CSR andseek to promote it externally and domestically. Any agreement would bewithout prejudice to parties retaining and advocating distinctive views on awide range of issues (such as fair taxes and spending priorities).fairness in pensions, savings and benefitsLabour has created a hugely complex and unfair benefits system, and itneeds to be reformed. Pensions and savings have been undermined.We will make pensions and benefits fair and reward savers by:• Immediately restoring the link between the basic state pension andearnings. We will uprate the state pension annually by whichever isthe higher of growth in earnings, growth in prices or 2.5 per cent.• Increasing the income tax threshold to £10,000.• Giving people greater flexibility in accessing part of their personalpension fund early, for example to help in times of financial hardship.• Giving people control over their pension by scrapping the rule thatcompels you to buy an annuity when you reach age 75.• Allowing individuals to save through our UK Infrastructure Bank,offering stable long-term returns.• Meeting the government’s obligations towards Equitable Lifepolicyholders who have suffered loss. We will set up a swift, simple,transparent and fair payment scheme.• Ending the rollercoaster of tax credit overpayments by fixing paymentsfor six months at a time. We will also target payments towards thosewho need them most.• Reforming Winter Fuel Payments to extend them to all severelydisabled people, paid for by delaying age-related Winter FuelPayments until people reach 65. We will continue to pay Winter FuelPayments to all current recipients of Pension Credit.

