Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040101.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Influential Senior Tory Dismisses David Camerons Party as Demented, Un-British and Inspired by Leftist Subversive
April 5, 2010

new-poster-radical-tories

Influential Conservative Party journalist Gerald Warner, who served as Special Adviser to the Secretary of State for Scotland during the John Major administration, has dismissed David Camerons party as demented, un-British and inspired by [a] leftist subversive who dedicated his work to Lucifer.

The shocking attack on the New Conservative Party came in Mr Warners regular column in the Tory-supporting Daily Telegraph newspaper.

In a scathing article titled David Camerons Big Society is a grotesque fantasy inspired by leftist subversive Saul Alinsky, Mr Warner attacked Mr Camerons social engineering policy which claimed to want to turn Britain into a big society.

Mr Warner quoted the official Conservative Party introduction to their Big Society plan as being directly based on the successful community organising movement established by Saul Alinsky in the United States and has successfully trained generations of community organisers, including President Obama..

Mr Warner said that this statement, which beggars belief even in the political fairground we now inhabit, is not taken from some far-out Trotskyite samizdat, but from the official Conservative Party introduction to David Camerons Big Idea  the creation of a neighbourhood army of 5,000 full-time community organisers to implement his grotesque fantasy called Big Society.

If you ever doubted that, under Cameron, the Conservative Party has become ideologically and culturally deracinated, has lost its political compass and is occupied by an alien clique that has disfigured it beyond recognition, here is the incontestable evidence, Mr Warner wrote.

Saul Alinsky is here openly acknowledged as the inspiration behind Camerons Big Idea.

Alinsky was the lifelong cultural revolutionary and political subversive whom Barack Obama formerly claimed as his spiritual mentor; since Obama hit mainstream politics, however, his supporters have expended a vast amount of effort on trying to conceal that embarrassing history, Mr Warner continued.

The aggressively amoral Alinsky believed there was no right or wrong in politics, only what was necessary to seize power (well, Dave and his gang would buy that), he wrote.

Yet the Conservative Party blurts out this admission in the launch document of Big Society. There is a pedantic debate over whether Alinsky was technically a Marxist, or by-passed Marx as old-hat.

What is beyond question is his project to overthrow capitalist society and to do so through infiltration of political parties, institutions and, above all, by the use of community organisers.

Anybody who thought claims on this blog of Cultural Marxism influencing even the Tory Party were exaggerated can now think again. Alinsky was the first begetter of ACORN, the sinister organisation that tried to gerrymander the American electorate.

What is going on here? How is it conceivable that even the most bland, politically correct, centre-right conservative party could derive its flagship policy from the thinking of Alinsky, whose seminal work Rules for Radicals was dedicated to Lucifer?

If, as one suspects, this is the brainchild of Oliver Letwin, he needs to be escorted expeditiously to the seclusion of a padded boudoir.

Are the Tories totally demented? Sending 5,000 community organisers to harass people into approved activities is reminiscent of the Red Guards invading the countryside during the Chinese Cultural Revolution, Mr Warner continued.

Claims that they will not be state employees are contradicted by the references to grants that will be made available. The inescapable fact is that any enterprise artificially generated by Government is a state-inspired initiative.

On page 6 of this electoral suicide note we also read that neighbourhood group leaders will have a code of conduct and This code of conduct will protect neighbourhood groups against extremist causes.

What is that all about? Political direction and social control, it would seem.

Big Society is either sinister or a reflection of the Cameronian cliques total divorce from reality. It is utterly un-Conservative and totally un-British.

The people of this country, insofar as they can bring themselves to take it seriously, will hate it to death. It is the product of an alien intrusion occupying the husk of the Conservative Party. It is an eloquent testimonial to why David Cameron is unfit to become the Prime Minister of this country, Mr Warner concluded.

Posted in National News | Comments (132)

