Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030190.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

Scotland needs champions more than ever
Wed, 05/05/2010 - 12:54

SNP leader and First Minister Alex Salmond today (Wed) called on Scots voters to elect local and national champions to help protect the country from the cuts agenda of the London parties.

Mr Salmond was speaking as he visited SNP HQ in Edinburgh, as the party's campaign team prepared to make 100,000 phone calls to supporters in key constituencies and deliver the last of a quarter of a million letters to target voters in these seats.

Mr Salmond said: "Scotland needs champions - now more than ever before. And only the SNP can protect this country from the London parties, none of whom put Scotland first.

"Labour are finished, while the Tories are arrogantly saying they can rule with no Scots MPs and the Lib Dems are ready to do a deal with David Cameron.

It is too late to save Labour but on polling day we can vote to save Scotland from the worst impact of a Tory or Tory-led government.

The final poll of the campaign shows the SNP pulling clear in second place in Scotland as the focus has shifted away from the air war and onto the ground battle at which our activists excel.

The last thing Scotland needs is to wake up on Friday morning without protection from the London agenda of cuts. That would represent an electoral hangover of historic proportions.

"That is because the one thing all the London parties have in common is the decade of despair they propose with savage cuts to public services. That makes this election the most important in a generation of Westminster contests for Scotland. And a vote for the SNP can help create the balanced parliament we need to protect Scotland's vital interests."

Mr Salmond, who will be campaigning later today in Falkirk and Dundee West, added:

"A vote for the SNP is the only vote that will count in Scotland because we are the only party offering Scots a real alternative to the dismal vision of the London parties. We are the only party with a vision for a fairer, wealthier independent Scotland.

"We say scrap the things that don't matter, like the 100 billion on Trident nuclear missiles, and protect the things that do matter, like schools and hospitals.

"Only a strong bloc of SNP local and national champions will stand up for Scotland, putting the interests of their communities and this nation first.

"Scotland can be the winner, with a strong vote for the SNP.
Filed under:

    Elections
    SNP


