Featured Candidate: Helen Geake

20 March 2015

In the run up to the General Election we will be giving you the opportunity to get to know some of our candidates. Our key candidates and spokespeople can be found here.

This year we will be standing in over 90% of seats in England and Wales.

Our candidate for Bury St Edmunds: Helen Geake

@HelenGeake

Why am I standing for the Green Party?

The Green Party stands for social justice. Fairness, equality and the increase of human happiness - isn't that what we all want? But trying to persuade most politicians of this seems to be difficult. The Green Party is different - and the more members, local councillors and MPs we have, the more we can make a difference.

What are your top priorities if elected?

 We urgently need to protect our NHS, by putting a stop to the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership.

This is currently under discussion by the EU and the USA, and if it goes ahead will cement the privatisation of the NHS in international law, making it impossible for us to protect the NHS from profit-seeking big business.

We need to address the greatest threat to us all, climate change. We simply can't leave our children with the legacy of a ruined world.

What made you want to get involved in politics?

After the last election I saw that politics was moving in a direction that I really didn't like. The bedroom tax, legal aid and social care cuts, the unchallenged power of big corporations - it seemed that everything civilised and caring about our society was at risk. I realised that if individuals like me didn't start to get involved, we were as much to blame as the current politicians.

What's your favourite thing about your constituency?

To name just a few: the medieval treasures of Bury St Edmunds Abbey and Bradfield Woods; the fantastic food of Elmswell Butchers and Alder Carr Farm; cultural life at Bury Theatre Royal and the John Peel Centre; the delicious beer and the friendly people!

Who is your political hero?

Clement Attlee. A modest man who quietly built a team which worked together to change British life for the better. We still benefit from many of his government's ideas - and we are fighting to keep or reinstate many others.
- See more at: https://www.greenparty.org.uk/news/2015/03/20/featured-candidate-helen-geake/#sthash.qIwzgfjC.dpuf