Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228010009.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Every Child Matters: Class Sizes and Teachers

Under the Conservatives, class sizes were far too high. Even the most dedicated teachers cannot give the attention which pupils need when there are more than thirty to a class. Labour pledged to do better, but their reduction of class sizes for 5-7 year olds came at the price of larger classes for 8-11 year olds. The parents whose children were five in 1997 now see their nine year-olds suffering the consequences of this sleight of hand. In secondary schools, classes are larger than they have been for twenty years.

To make a real difference to class sizes and improve standards achieved by all children, more teachers are needed in schools. The Conservatives under-valued and demoralised the profession. Many of Labour's efforts to make amends have misfired. Performance-related pay is a crude and unfair approach to rewarding teachers. Teachers are also burdened with more and more unnecessary bureaucracy. Small wonder that there is now a grave shortage of teachers. Liberal Democrats will spend over £1 billion extra each year to:

    Cut class sizes to 25 for all 5-11 year olds. We will do this by establishing a maximum average class size of 25 in each local authority’s primary schools.

    Fund 5000 additional secondary teacher places. This will bring pupil:teacher ratios back to around 1997 levels and start to improve on them. We will put particular emphasis on recruiting teachers in shortage subjects.

    Guarantee a classroom assistant for every 25 pupils in the 5-7 age bracket (Key Stage 1) to improve the ratio of adults to children in infant school classrooms. We will provide 40,000 extra classroom assistants, including 25,000 for 5-7 year olds, compared to the government’s plan to spread 20,000 across all age groups.

    Introduce paid preparation hours for primary teachers. By funding extra posts, we will be able to allow all primary teachers two paid hours a week to prepare and plan lessons.

    Pay trainee teachers a full training salary replacing the current training grants to improve teacher recruitment.

    Reduce bureaucracy by scrapping the Teacher Training Agency and giving its functions to the General Teaching Council.

    Improve Information and Communications Technology (ICT) support for teachers. At the moment, teachers have to spend too much time out of the classroom maintaining computer equipment and so have less time to devote to their pupils. Drawing on the experience of the recently established e-learning foundations, we will establish educational charitable trusts to arrange the lease of computer equipment and services. We will also invest in training related to the use of new science equipment.

    Scrap Performance Related Pay. Instead we will link teachers' pay with professional development to boost morale in the teaching profession and improve retention of experienced teachers. Teachers will have the opportunity to take a series of in-service training courses. Each time they pass, they will gain a significant salary increase.

In the long term, our goal is:

    A maximum average class size of 18 for all secondary classes with a practical element such as science and modern languages

Every Child Matters: Books and Equipment

There are still too many schools having to make do with dog-eared and outdated textbooks shared between several pupils. Schools also lack the computer equipment needed to prepare children for the digital age in which they live and will have to work. Liberal Democrats will:

    Increase funding for books and equipment in schools over and above existing spending levels. We would provide an average of £1250 per primary school and £4250 per secondary school per year. Schools could choose to spend this money on books Information Communications Technology (ICT) software such as CD-ROMs.

    Increase funding for ICT and science equipment and purchase and maintenance, and ICT training for teachers within schools, over and above existing spending levels.

