Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040025.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP

Government Exposed Lying in Man-Made Global Warming Propaganda
March 17, 2010

nursery-rhymes01Two Government Climate Change press advertisements have been judged as misleading and ordered banned by the Advertising Standards Agency (ASA) just six weeks after the British National Party initiated a campaign against them.

The two advertisements juxtaposed adapted extracts from popular nursery rhymes with text that warned about the dangers of global warning.

One of the banned adverts claimed: Rub a dub dub, three men in a tub, a necessary course of action due to flash flooding caused by climate change.

A second said Jack and Jill could not fetch a pail of water because extreme weather due to climate change had caused a drought.

The ASA ruled that the advertisements went beyond mainstream scientific consensus in asserting that climate change would cause flooding and drought.

These were claims which had been made by the now discredited United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).

What the ASA didnt say, but should have, is that the IPCC claim that extreme weather events would become more frequent and intense has been retracted following an in-depth study of weather records by independent scientists that established that the claim lacked credibility.

The ASA went on to say that the banned adverts, created on behalf of the Governments Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC) to promote its carbon reduction initiative, made exaggerated claims about the threat posed to Britain through global warming.

This development comes just six weeks after the BNPs Operation Fightback urged supporters to lodge complaints with the ASA over misleading Government claims made in its man-made global warming Action on CO2 television adverts.

These used the words scientists agree in connection with disputed and in some cases, retracted, IPCC findings.

Specifically Operation Fightback pointed out that the use of the words scientists agree implied that all scientists agreed with the now largely debunked IPCC claims made for man-made global warming, something which is manifestly untrue.

In Operation Fightbacks opinion, the Governments use of this terminology was likely to constitute a breach of the BCAP Television Advertising Code section 5 (5.1.1 and 5.1.2) which requires that no advertisement may directly or by implication mislead and no advertisement may mislead by omission.

Although the advertising standards watchdog did not uphold the hundreds of complaints made by Operation Fightback supporters, it is now clear that it has put them on the alert as far as Government man-made climate change propaganda is concerned.

Once again the BNP has made a difference by helping to expose the EU-collaborating Labour regimes lies.

Posted in National News | 47 Comments 

