Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_060018.txt

Press Release from Party: Con

News story
Conservatives announce pensioner pledge
Friday, March 26 2010
David Cameron

David Cameron and George Osborne have outlined the Conservatives pensioner pledge for the General Election campaign.

The pledge includes a personal promise to protect the Winter Fuel Payment, free bus passes and TV licences, and the pension credit.

Shadow Chancellor George Osborne has delivered a speech in Birmingham and David Cameron has taken part in a Question & Answer session with Saga magazine readers in London.

DAVID CAMERON'S PLEDGE TO PENSIONERS

The Government I lead will make sure that older and retired people are treated with dignity and given the quality of life they deserve. This is my pledge to support pensioners.

My Government will:

    Increase the value of the basic state pension for all pensioners and help to stop the spread of the means test by linking pensions to earnings. You wont get a repeat of Labours mean 75p rise with us.
    Freeze council tax for the next two years, in partnership with your council.
    Make it worthwhile to save for a personal pension and get rid of the rules that force people to get a compulsory annuity.
    Help people protect their home rather than have to sell it to pay for care.
    Take all family homes worth less than 1 million out of inheritance tax.
    Increase spending on the NHS every year, which is our number one priority.
    Cut paperwork so we get more police out on the beat fighting crime.

Our opponents are trying to scare older people by telling deliberate lies about our plans. So here is a personal promise, from me, about the things we will protect.

    I will protect your Winter Fuel Payment.
    I will protect your free bus pass and your free TV licence.
    I will protect the pension credit.

These vital benefits will not be cut under the Conservatives. You have my word on it.

If he wins the election, Gordon Brown wants to introduce a number of measures which will hit pensioners. A Conservative Government will not penalise pensioners, as Labour are planning to do:

    We will NOT introduce a death tax of up to 50,000.
    We will NOT cut attendance allowance and disability allowance for the over 65s.

We can afford to make these pledges because we have found the money from other areas, like cutting government waste and bringing forward the date at which the state pension age will rise to 66.

Read David's speech in full
Go to news

    Subscribe
    Print



