Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040074.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Labour voters turning to the BNP  Sir Andrew Green
March 30, 2010

andrewgreen01British National Party candidates standing in seats in the Labour Partys former strongholds have received a boost this morning after a report in The Guardian newspaper.

The Labour Partys traditional voters are turning in significant numbers to the BNP.

Thats the verdict of Sir Andrew Green chairman of the immigration monitoring organisation, MigrationWatch UK.

He says that the Governments arrogant disregard for the concerns of Britains working class, who have suffered the most from the effects of immigration, has encouraged people who have voted Labour all their lives to now switch their allegiance to the British National Party.

The former British diplomat also said that it wasnt just Labour supporters who were angry about immigration but some 70-80% of the population who were frustrated and dismayed that not one of the three main parties had a serious policy to deal with this all-important issue.

The publics complaint is not that politicians are failing to talk about immigration  the real complaint is that politicians are failing to take effective action.

In 1971, net immigration was -40,000: in 2008, it was over +163,000. If it continues at this rate the population of Britain will hit 70 million in 20 years time, and then 80 million in the 2060s.
Indeed, net immigration under Labour has led to another 3 million immigrants coming to the UK. Sir Andrew wrote in The Guardian this morning.

He also echoed the words of Nick Griffin when he said that the debate was being stifled by opponents of immigration controls who shouted racist whenever the topic came up for discussion.

Its not racist to talk about immigration, he said.

But Sir Andrew Green didnt have the courage to identify the reason why none of the three main parties have a Stop Immigration policy . . . its because Labour, the Tories and the Lib-Dems are all dependent on the immigrant vote to win them seats at the General Election.

Posted in National News | Comments (222)

