Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030148.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

LibDem hypocrisy on honesty
Wed, 28/04/2010 - 10:46

Commenting on the LibDems criticisms of the SNP's legal action,
the SNP's election co-ordinator Stewart Hosie said their
past  pronouncements on the exclusion of their leader expose LibDem
hypocrisy on the issue and the hollowness of their  commitment to
fairness.

Mr Hosie published a list of newspaper extracts showing how the
LibDems proposed legal action if they were excluded from any TV debates
in 1997.

Commenting,  Mr Hosie said:

"The
LibDems were part of the Westminster carve up that excluded  Scotlands
perspective and  the SNPs distinct views from the debates, and indeed
Scottish voters from  the audience. So much for their belief in honesty
and fairness.

"But as their position in 1997 shows, their position is utterly
hypocritical  and dishonest.
 
"Alex Salmond won the Sky
debate hands down  which reinforces the SNPs case for inclusion in the
BBC debate this week.  Nick Clegg, like the other London-based party
leaders, is afraid of debating the  First Minster because he doesnt
want to be challenged on the real issues.

"Like all  the other London-based parties, the LibDems are
trying to conceal the extent  of their 250 billion cuts agenda from the
electorate, but the information  is now out in the public domain and
they all must come clean in this campaign.  Nick Clegg and the LibDems
dont want to be challenged on his policy to spend billions  of pounds
on nuclear weapons.  

The leaders  debates are dominating this Westminster election,
and the LibDems are part of the cosy  establishment at Westminster which
is desperate to preclude Scotland and stop the  SNPs voice from being
heard.

ENDS

Notes:

LibDem quotes
on Leaders Debates

Press Association (11 Apr 97).

By Gavin Cordon

COOK 'DOUBTFUL' WHETHER
TIMES CAN
BREAK TV DEBATE DEADLOCK

Liberal Democrat
campaign chairman Lord Holme
warned that any attempt
by the broadcasters to screen a debate which did not include Paddy
Ashdown - as
The Times is proposing - would fall foul of election law. "The issue is
whether the television companies would cover a debate which excludes
Paddy Ashdown.
Our legal advice is that they should not do that," he said. The party
has
made clear that it would take legal action "as a last resort" to
block the broadcast of any debate from which Mr Ashdown was excluded.

Press Association (23 Mar 97).

By Alison Little

ASHDOWN QUESTION UNANSWERED
IN TV
DEBATE WRANGLE

For the Liberal
Democrats, election campaign
manager Lord Holme, who is
heading the party's talks, said: "We've made it plain to both
broadcasters
that their preliminary proposals for discussion neither meet the legal
requirement for impartiality nor the public demand for the inclusion of
Paddy
Ashdown in the debate on a comparable basis to Mr Major and Mr Blair.
"It's not for Dr Mawhinney, before discussions have even begun, to
dictate
unilaterally the terms of the debate. "The debate will only go ahead
successfully if all three parties are able to agree. Any debate should
be an
enhancement of democracy, not a Tory stitch-up."

Mr Ashdown, on GMTV,
reaffirmed his party would
take legal action if it
did not get a satisfactory outcome from negotiations over the debate
format.
"I'd rather not take legal action on this, but, if we have to, we
will."

The Guardian
(20 Mar 97), p. 9.

By Ewen MacAskill

ELECTION '97: ROW LOOMS AS
TORIES
AGREE TO TV DEBATE

The Liberal
Democrats' campaign chairman, Lord
Holme, demanded full
participation, adding: "We do not want to have to go to the courts to
ensure fair play but we will if we have to."

The Scotsman
(17 Mar 97), p. 1.

By John Penman

Legal threat to Major-Blair
TV debate

The
Liberal
Democrat MP, Charles Kennedy, confirmed his party would challenge any
attempt to exclude Mr Ashdown from a debate.

"We
will
take legal action. We have already been taking legal advice on this,"
he said.

Filed under:

    Elections
    SNP


