Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030123.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

Leaders debates should be real debates
Thu, 22/04/2010 - 10:51

Ahead of the leaders debate tonight SNP Westminster leader Angus Robertson said while huge areas of last
weeks debate were irrelevant to Scotland tonights debate would be very relevant and demonstrated why it was wrong to exclude the SNP and Plaid Cymru
from the debate.

The SNP also revealed the partys latest poster urging voters to watch a real debate on Sunday as the party highlighted key views that will be missing from tonights debate.

Speaking ahead of the debate, Mr Robertson said:

The last debate covered huge areas not relevant to Scotland.

This debate is very relevant and the subject matter demonstrates why the SNP and Plaid should be
represented.

Trident will be at the heart of tonights debate and the Labour and Tory plans to spend 100 billion
on new nuclear weapons of mass destruction and the Lib Dems costly alternative will be allowed to pass without question.

The presence of voices from Scotland and Wales would not only make a better debate but would be a more accurate reflection for the public of the reality of the situation with the SNP there to argue the alternative position.

Following the debate the SNP will with our partners Plaid Cymru set out the real alternative to the London parties nuclear future at an event in London tomorrow.

It is all the more ironic that, as it becomes clear voters are looking for alternatives to the Westminster machine, those alternatives are directly excluded from the debate.

Looking ahead to Sundays debate, Mr Robertson said:

Instead of the sterile format and cosy consensus in tonights debate, viewers across the UK can see a
real debate on Sunday from Scotland.

Instead of the phoney war they will hear an alternative to the broken Westminster machine and the potential a balanced parliament offers for Scotland.

The SNP also presented a series of view points that will be missing from tonights debate as a result of the closed shop debate.

"Viewers will not hear:

    opposition to the renewal of the UKs nuclear weapons system and the continued spending of billions every year on maintaining Trident nuclear weapons.
    The party of Government responsible for passing the
    worlds strongest climate change legislation - praised internationally - with a 42% carbon emission reduction target by 2050  stronger than the UKs target and that has a partnership with the Maldives, one of the nations most at threat from Climate Change.
    The role an independent Scotland could play in
    Europe and the world.
    The views of the SNP as the party which led
    opposition to the illegal invasion of Iraq, including leading the Parliamentary
    debate which forced the Labour government to concede an eventual inquiry  the Chilcott
    inquiry.
    A party committed to meeting the 0.7% GDP for
    international development target and that in Government has doubled our own aid
    commitments including support for Malawi through Scotlands partnership with
    that country.

 
Filed under:

    TV Debate
    SNP


