Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060030.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------


Restore our civil liberties
We will scale back Labour’s database state and protect the privacy of the public’s information.We will introduce a balanced approach to the retention of people’s DNA and reform the criminalrecords system so it protects children without destroying trust.

Labour have subjected Britain’s historicfreedoms to unprecedented attack. Theyhave trampled on liberties and, in their place,compiled huge databases to track the activitiesof millions of perfectly innocent people,giving public bodies extraordinary powers tointervene in the way we live our lives.The impact of this has been profound and farreaching.Trust has been replaced by suspicion.The database state is a poor substitute for thehuman judgement essential to the delivery ofpublic services. Worse than that, it gives peoplefalse comfort that an infallible central state islooking after their best interests. But the manyscandals of lost data, leaked documents anddatabase failures have put millions at risk. It istime for a new approach to protecting our liberty.Protect our freedomsLabour’s approach to our personal privacy isthe worst of all worlds – intrusive, ineffectiveand enormously expensive. We will scrap IDcards, the National Identity Register and theContactpoint database. To protect our freedomsfrom state encroachment and encouragegreater social responsibility, we will replace the
Human Rights Act with a UK Bill of Rights.We will review and reform libel laws to protectfreedom of speech, reduce costs and discouragelibel tourism.Wherever possible, we believe that personaldata should be controlled by individual citizensthemselves. We will strengthen the powersof the Information Commissioner to penaliseany public body found guilty of mismanagingdata. We will take further steps to protectpeople from unwarranted intrusion by the state,including:cutting back intrusive powers • of entry intohomes, which have been massively extendedunder Labour;• curtailing the surveillance powers that allowsome councils to use anti-terrorism laws tospy on people making trivial mistakes orminor breaches of the rules;• requiring Privacy Impact Assessments ofany proposal that involves data collectionor sharing; and,• ensuring proper Parliamentary scrutinyof any new powers of data-sharing.

The indefinite retention of innocent people’sDNA is unacceptable, yet DNA data providesa useful tool for solving crimes. We will legislateto make sure that our DNA database is usedprimarily to store information about those whoare guilty of committing crimes rather thanthose who are innocent. We will collect theDNA of all existing prisoners, those understate supervision who have been convicted ofan offence, and anyone convicted of a seriousrecordable offence. We pushed the Governmentto end the permanent retention of innocentpeople’s DNA , and we will change the guidanceto give people on the database who have beenwrongly accused of a minor crime an automaticright to have their DNA withdrawn.We believe that people working in positionsof trust with children should go through aproper criminal record check. But Labour’snew system goes too far. So we will reviewthe criminal records and ‘vetting and barring’regime and scale it back to common sense levels.The Hunting Act has proved unworkable.A Conservative government will give Parliamentthe opportunity to repeal the Hunting Acton a free vote, with a government bill ingovernment time.

