Carmichael pulls out of Holyrood appearance
Tue, 24/03/2015 - 19:24

Alistair Carmichael’s withdrawal at short notice from appearing in front of a Scottish Parliament Committee has been described as a ‘disrespectful snub’ to Holyrood.

The Secretary of State for Scotland pulled out of his scheduled appearance before Holyrood’s Devolution Committee less than 24 hours before he was due to give evidence, citing the need to attend the Finance Bill at Westminster. However proceedings on this bill are not expected to start until the afternoon and no attempt has been made to appear before the committee via videolink as others have done on a regular basis.

Despite David Cameron promising that his ministers would regularly appear in front of Holyrood committees, other UK ministers have previously refused to appear at Holyrood. On eight separate occasions, the Scottish Parliament’s Welfare Reform Committee has requested the presence of a responsible minister – requests that have been declined every single time.

Commenting, SNP MSP Mark McDonald said:

“This last minute decision to withdraw from appearing before the Devolution Committee is a disrespectful snub to the Scottish Parliament.

“If the Scottish Secretary is needed at Westminster in the afternoon, then surely appearing before the committee by videolink would be a perfectly viable option in this day and age.

“Instead Alistair Carmichael has simply cancelled his appearance, despite it being the last opportunity for a Westminster Government minister to give evidence on the draft clauses that have been published.

“We have heard from witness after witness that the draft clauses that have been put forward fail to meet the spirit or the letter of the Smith Commission report.

“Now we are faced with the ludicrous situation of Holyrood’s devolution committee not being able to put that evidence to any minister in the Westminster Government who had a hand in drawing up the draft clauses.

“It is deeply disappointing that once again a Westminster Government minister will not be appearing before a Scottish Parliament committee.”

Details of previous refusals to appear before Holyrood committees can be viewed at http://www.snp.org/media-centre/news/2015/jan/tory-minister-snubs-welfar...
