Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_050013.txt

Press Release from Party: Greens

Greens in first place in online policy survey

9 April 2010

Ahead of the general election, an independent website which allows users to pick a political party based on policy alone has had some intriguing results.

www.voteforpolicies.org.uk sidesteps bias and traditional loyalty by getting voters to pick their favoured political policies without knowing which political party the policies have orginated from.

After 62 000 votes, the Greens have surprised political commentators as runaway leaders with over 28% of the vote.

By contrast, the establishment political parties are faring less well. The Liberal Democrats were the highest scorers of the other parties with 18% of the vote. Behind them Labour and the Conservatives followed with 17% and 16%, respectively. Minority parties UKIP and the BNP lagged behind with 11% and 10%.

Policy areas voters are asked to pick from include crime, democracy, economy, education, environment, Europe, NHS, immigration and welfare.

As well as the environment, Greens polled strongly on key election issues, ranking as favourites for their policies on crime, education, health/NHS, and welfare, often with a lead of over 10 percent.

The scope of the Green lead has given many real food for thought as voters prepare to decide which party will become the next government after the may 6 election.

Green Party leader Caroline Lucas said:

"We're delighted to have gained such a sizeable margin in this popular online survey. The results that show us with a 10% lead over our closest competitors after 62,000 votes will no doubt surprise many."

"At the Green Party however, we have a good deal of faith in the British public. It's no surprise to us that they're showing real common sense when it comes to policies that will create a fair and sustainable future for Britain."

"When people take the time to look at our policies in depth, they realise that not only are we not - and never have been - just a single issue party."

"We have some great policies which are often worth a second look."

"Our policies address the economy, jobs, public services, pensions and climate change with sensible, practical, sustainable measures."

Caroline Lucas, who is the Green parliamentary candidate for Brighton Pavilion, continued:

"The findings of this survey echo what we've been hearing from voters up and down the country. The vast majority of voters can see the policies of the main parties aren't working and they're crying out for change."

"This makes it clear why this year the Greens are so close to making the crucial breakthrough into Westminster."

"In my target constituency of Brighton Pavilion, a recent ICM poll put us ahead of our rival parties with 35% of the vote. We're bookies favourites for the seat and increasing media interest is really fuelling our belief that we can win here."

 

