Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228010004.txt

Party Manifesto: LibDem (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

introduction: our values
This election can be and must be a turning point for Britain. This must bea moment of great change, so that we emerge from the recession as a fairer,greener, stronger and more united society. To do that, we need to be clearand honest about the failures that caused the problems we face, and set aclear, hopeful course for a different, better future.Britain is struggling to emerge from a long and difficult recession. Familiesare finding it hard to make ends meet. Millions are unemployed, and millionsmore have taken pay cuts or reduced hours to stay in their jobs. And thereare deeper problems too. Britain, for all its many strengths, is still too unequaland unfair, a country where the circumstances of your birth and the income ofyour parents still profoundly affect your chances in life. Our children’s future isthreatened by climate change, which we have done far too little to stop. Andthe political system is in crisis.Britain needs a fresh start. We need hope for a different, better future.That is what this manifesto is all about. We believe that the future must bebuilt on a different foundation: fairness. We believe that there are systemicfailures that underlie every one of the major problems we face. And that givesus the chance to reshape our country, fundamentally, for the better.Fairness is an essential British value. It is at the centre of how the vastmajority of British people live their lives, but it has been forgotten by those atthe top. Instead, greed and self-interest have held sway over the governmentand parts of the economy in recent decades. They have forgotten that growthmust be shared and sustainable if it is to last.Our core aim is to hard-wire fairness back into national life. That waywe can build a stronger society with growth that lasts, fairness andopportunity for all.bringing back fairnessAt the root of Britain’s problems today is the failure to distribute powerfairly between people. Political power has been hoarded by politicians andcivil servants; economic power has been hoarded by big businesses. Bothkinds of power have been stripped from ordinary citizens, leaving us with afragile society marked by inequality, environmental degradation and boombusteconomics. If government merely tinkers at the edges – the Labourand Conservative approach – Britain’s problems will not be solved. We canchange this only with radical action.The Liberal Democrat philosophy is built on a simple ambition: to distributepower fairly among people. From that goal of fairness spring the four prioritieswhich form the backbone of this manifesto. Each will redistribute power of adifferent kind, be it economic, social, political or financial. Each will changeBritain for the better.Those four changes are spelt out in detail in this manifesto. They will makeBritain the fair country people want it to be. They are:• Fair taxes that put money back in your pocket.• A fair chance for every child.• A fair future, creating jobs by making Britain greener.• A fair deal for you from politicians.our tax planWe propose the most radical tax reform in a generation, cutting taxes formillions paid for by closing loopholes at the top and increasing taxes onpolluting aviation. No tax system should try to create total equality of income– but it can and should help redistribute wealth and power, to alleviate theworst excesses of inequality.

our schools planWe will give every child the fair start they deserve by providing cash toreduce class sizes and increase one-to-one tuition. This is the best way toensure, over the long term, that every child has opportunities, no matter theirbackground, their home town or their parents’ bank balance.our economic planOur vision is of a very different economy, balanced and sustainable bothfinancially and environmentally. We will reduce the deficit, break up the banks,and ensure that Britain leads in developing the new green economy that theworld needs.our plan for cleaning up politicsThe final change is the one that makes the others possible: political reform.The current system exists to block change. We will stamp out corruption andabuse by giving people power to sack corrupt MPs, end big money politics,and make sure those who seek to sit in Parliament pay full UK taxes. We willreinvigorate our democracy by dispersing power, breaking open Westminsterand Whitehall and embracing fair votes for every level of election.change that works for youThis manifesto is not limited to these four structural changes. It is a fullprogramme for a Liberal Democrat government, setting out our approachto all public services, to fiscal discipline, and to Britain’s place in thechanging world.In formulating our policies we have been driven by our one abiding concern:fairness. We know these are difficult times. But we also know there is a wayout, a way to build a fairer, greener and stronger future.It will take courage and commitment to make Britain truly fair for our children,and for the future. It will take an extraordinary government, different fromevery one that has come before. That is what the Liberal Democrats offer,which no other party can at this election.If you want real change, choose the Liberal Democrats.

These four changes will transform Britain. Theyare our core priorities. The stronger we are as aparty, the more power and influence we will haveto make them happen, to change our country forthe better. They are all essential to delivering realchange in Britain.

a green future: protecting the planet
Liberal Democrats believe that protecting the environment is oneof the greatest challenges this generation faces. We must handon to our children a planet worth living on. That requires actionacross government – this is everybody’s responsibility, not just oneclimate change minister’s. It is because we believe concern for theenvironment is important in every part of people’s lives that we haveidentified policies in every chapter of this manifesto to protect theplanet. These policies are highlighted with green side tabs.

