Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040001.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP

Forty Inconvenient Truths the UN Wants to Brush under the Carpet
March 12, 2010

The news that the United Nations (UN) intends to have the findings of its Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) reviewed by a body it claims to be independent, a claim some regard as laughable, suggests that it is seeking to brush a whole raft of inconvenient facts under the carpet.

They have to do this if their programme leading to global governance, the erosion of national sovereignty for the worlds nation states is to stand any chance of success.

Furthermore, their plans for the greatest heist in history, the transfer of some $54 trillion from the developed nations to the Third World by 2050, necessary for the creation of what they describe as their New Green World Order can only succeed if the findings of the UNs IPCC are given credibility by the UNs choice of independent arbitrator.

This episode illustrates the extent to which globalist institutions such as the UN and national governments, are prepared to fabricate evidence to facilitate the implementation of their dishonest globalist agenda.

The following are just some of the issues and facts that the UN has to dispose of.

1. The head of the IPCC, Dr Rajendra Pachauri, has no background in Climate Science. His PhD is in economics and he worked as a railway engineer before becoming the head of the IPCC.

2. Only 52 scientists contributed to the 2007 IPCC summary for policy makers, although diplomats from over 115 countries contributed.

3. A paper that became a key reference source for the IPCCs claimed that the effect of urban warming in eastern China was negligible. It turned out that 49 of the 84 climate monitoring stations used for the report had no history of their locations at all, meaning no one could verify where the data came from. This included 40 of the 42 rural stations. Of the rest no fewer than 18 had been moved during the study period to warmer urban areas. When the source data was re-examined it was found that urbanisation was responsible for 40% of the warming previously reported and claimed as evidence for man-made global warming.

4. When asked to independently review the IPCCs last two reports on claimed sea-level rises, the reviewing scientist was astonished to find that not one of their 22 contributing authors was a sea level specialist.

5. Up until 2003, the IPCCs satellite-based evidence showed no upward trend in sea level, so the IPCC used an increase of 2.3mm recorded on a single Hong Kong harbour tide-gauge to claim a global sea level increase of 2.3mm.

6. The IPCCs now retracted claim that the Himalayan glaciers were melting was derived from nothing more scientific than a phone interview with someone who wasnt even a scientist.

7. The IPCCs now retracted claim that man-made global warming would lead to increasing numbers of natural disasters, such as Katrina scale hurricanes, was based on an unpublished report that had not been subjected to critical peer-review.

8. The IPCCs now retracted claim that man-made global warming was going to result in deficiencies of up to 50% in African agriculture was also based on a non peer-reviewed claim in a non-scientific paper.

9. The IPCCs now retracted claim that up to 40% of the Amazonian rain forest could react drastically to even a slight reduction in rainfall was based on a non-peer-reviewed non-scientific paper.

10. The IPCCs claim that 55% of the Netherlands was below sea level, rather than the actual 26%, has now been retracted.

11. According to the United States Historical Climateology Network (USHNC) 90% of US climate-monitoring surface stations have been found to be poorly situated, meaning that they have a margin of error greater than one degree Centigrade, which is huge in climateology terms.

12. In 1978 there were 6,000 climate-monitoring surface stations; today there are only about 1,200.

13. The vast majority of lost climate monitoring stations were sited in rural areas, meaning that overall results are distorted upwards due to a much greater percentage of such stations being located in urban areas, often on top of warm office blocks.

14. Carbon dioxide contributes only 4.2% to 8.4% of the greenhouse gas effect.

15. Only approximately 4% of carbon dioxide is actually man-made.

16. Water vapour accounts for between 90% and 95% of the green house gas effect.

17. An estimated 99.99% of water vapour is natural, meaning that no amount of de-industrialisation could get rid of it.

18. There have been many times when the temperature of the planet has been higher than it is now; these include the Medieval Warming Period, the Holocene and the Jurassic periods.

19. Antarctic ice core samples prove that increases in carbon dioxide follow increases in temperature by about 800 years, not precede them as claimed by the IPCC.

20. A leading figure in the Climategate scandal now admits that there has been no statistically significant global warming since 1995.

21. 2008 and 2009 were the two coolest years of the decade, neither of which are likely to be as cold as 2010.

22. During the Ordovician period carbon dioxide concentrations were twelve times higher than what they are now  yet the temperature was lower.

23. Solar activity is highly correlated with temperature change.

24. Studies show that half of all recent warming was solar in cause.

25. The planet Mars has warmed by about half a degree Centigrade since the 1970s, which is about as much as the Earth over the same period; as far as we are aware there is no industry on that planet.

26. The 0.7 degree Centigrade increase in temperature over the last century is entirely consistent with well-established, long-term, climate trends.

27. The distance between the Earth and the Sun varies; thus affecting the amount of heat energy the earth receives.

28. Earths axial tilt oscillates between 21.4 degrees and 24.8 degrees, which affects the distribution of the suns energy across its surface.

29. Antarctica has 90% of the earths ice and it is growing, not shrinking as claimed by the IPCC.

30. The Arctic sea ice has now returned to its 1979 levels, which is when monitoring began.

31. The Arctic ice caps have recovered from their loss in 2007.

32. The Arctic is now one degree Centigrade cooler than it was in the 1940s.

33. Sea level 81,000 years ago was one metre higher than it is now while carbon dioxide levels were lower.

34. According to satellite data sea level has been decreasing since 2005.

35. Instead of damaging forests, the increased level of carbon dioxide has been helping them grow.

36. Some climate scientists argue that urban warming is responsible for half of the global warming trend from 1980 to 2002.

37. According to a leaked Climategate email, temperatures recorded in Darwin, Australia, were shown to be falling by 0.7 degrees Centigrade per century  but after IPCC homogenisation they were recorded as increasing at 1.2 degrees Centigrade per century.

38. It is alleged by Russian scientists that Britains Hadley Climate Research Unit cherry picked climate data from just 25% of Russias surface weather monitoring stations, thereby overstating Russias warming by a very significant two-thirds of a degree Centigrade for the period between the 1870s and 1990s.

39. It is alleged that Britains Hadley Climate Research Unit, the body at the centre of Climategate, threw out original temperature data that could have been re-examined to verify its findings, because it claimed it did not have storage space.

40. The owners of the trading floor where the carbon credits will be traded, allegedly including Goldman Sachs and Al Gore, stand to make trillions of dollars if cap-and-trade is passed by the US administration.

The threat to national sovereignty and the prosperity of all in the developed world from the United Nations cannot be overstated.

Posted in National News | 39 Comments 

