Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228060040.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

PENALTIES AND PREVENTION

Our armoury of criminal law and penalties requires constant review. We have just introduced a new law specifically aimed at the so-called 'joy-rider'. This places the responsibility for dangerous driving, damage, injury or death following from the taking of a vehicle squarely on the shoulders of those in it.

Even where 'joy-riding' is not involved, causing death through dangerous or drink driving is a very serious offence. We believe that the maximum sentence for such a crime should reflect its gravity.

Squatting is nothing less than the seizure of another's property without consent. Having consulted widely on the subject, we have decided to extend the criminal law dealing with squatting.

Illegal camping by gypsies or other travellers can affect the lives of whole communities. We believe that this problem must be tackled.

We are concerned about the small but persistent minority, particularly of young people, who re-offend while already on bail. We have announced new measures to deter them from repeated crime.

Young people who find themselves on probation for shop-lifting, vandalism or petty thuggery should be shown where the path of crime may lead. They should be given a brief personal experience of the nature of prison life.

    'Joy-riders' will now face prison sentences of up to 5 years, unlimited fines and unlimited driving bans.
    We will extend the maximum sentence for causing death through dangerous or drink driving.
    We will create a new criminal offence of squatting, to give greater protection to the owners and occupants of shops, commercial premises, houses and flats.
    The 1968 Caravan Sites Act will be reviewed with the aim of reducing the nuisance of illegal encampments.
    As part of a community sentence, young offenders will be taken to see what life is really like inside one of our prisons - a sobering experience for them.
    We will introduce a new police power to make an arrest for breach of police bail.
    We will give the courts the statutory power to increase sentences for those who offend while on bail.
    We will increase the number of bail hostel places, to enable closer supervision of those on bail.
    We will mount a drive against school truancy, and set up a Task Force to find the best ways of co-ordinating the work of local agencies helping young people at risk of becoming offenders. 

