Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228020003.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

Introduction
The argument of this Manifestois that to deliver a future fairfor all we need to rebuild oureconomy, protect and reformour public services as westrengthen our society andrenew our politics. We, Labour,are the people to carry out thisnext stage of national renewalbecause of our values andour understanding of the roleof government: to stand byordinary people so they canchange their lives for the better.It is our belief that it is active,reforming government, notabsent government, that helpsmake people powerful.We are proud of our countryand the way it has changedsince 1997. It is just too easy toforget. Our public services werea byword for decline; today theyhave been transformed. Ourlarge cities were reeling from twosavage recessions; today, despitethe global economic crisis, theyhave a renewed prosperity andcivic pride. People were paid£1 an hour; today the minimumwage and tax credits providethe dignity of a living income.The welfare state simply didnot understand working womenand families. Today, with family-friendlyworking and betterchildcare it has at last begun todo so.These changes happenedbecause we applied our valuesto the world as it was then.We changed our party so thatit connected to the hopes andaspirations of the British people.We changed our country becausewe rejected the philosophyof the 1980s which said thatgovernment should just get outof the way and that we were in itjust for ourselves.We are proud of our recordbut today we are running forthe future. We have to addressa world that is very differentnow, with major new challengeswe must confront: fighting forour economic future in a toughcompetitive world, tacklingclimate change, improvingpublic services amidst financialconstraint, confronting thereality of international terrorism,adjusting to an ageing societyso people can live longer andhappier lives, and restoring trustin politics.The global financial crisisshows we need to be bolderabout reforming our financialmarkets and building oureconomic future on fairer, moresolid foundations. To build onsuccess in our public services,we need to protect investmentin the front line and also be boldabout putting citizens genuinelyin control. And we must bebold reformers of our politics:seizing this once in a generationopportunity to make ourParliament properly accountable.In all these decisions, we offerprogressive solutions in toughtimes. We do not measure theboldness of our programme byhow much we spend but theresults we achieve. By takinghard decisions, being guided atall times by a sense of fairness,we believe that we can continueto advance towards the goodsociety in which we believe.There is a big choice at thiselection about whether weconfront these challenges andbuild the kind of economy,society and politics we believein, or duck them. But to be ableto meet these future challenges,there are some immediatedecisions we need to get rightnow. Above all, we need tosecure the economic recovery.Get it right and we can go on tobuild a strong economic future.Get it wrong and we will slipback into recession.Labour believes we mustnot put the recovery at riskby reckless cuts to publicspending this year.From the autumn of 2008,big calls had to be made. Wenationalised Northern Rock,protected people’s savings, cutVAT to stimulate our economy,put in place job guarantees toget people back to work, andstepped in to stop repossessions.
It is working. The bankingsystem has been stabilised.Our economy is showingsigns of returning to growth.Unemployment has, so far, risenby over 500,000 less than peopleexpected this time last year.Repossessions are at around halfthe level of the 1990s.The question at this election iswhether people think the choicewe made was the right oneand whether we use the powerof government to help sustainrecovery, or allow it to be snuffedout. Every government of themajor developed economies – ofLeft and Right – recognises theneed to support the economywhile growth is still fragile. Wewill not cut spending this year,but instead support the economyto ensure recovery is established.Labour believes we shouldrebuild our economy in newways: with more high-techbusiness, fairer rewardsand responsibility from all,including at the top.The world changed out of allrecognition in 2007 with theonset of the global economiccrisis. Major British banks, thecustodians of our savings andlivelihoods, ran out of moneybecause of the recklessness ofthose in charge. This Manifestomakes the case that there shouldbe no return to business as usual.People have suffered too muchwith their jobs, livelihoods andconfidence to allow a return tothe same old ways. There is adesire not simply to correct forwhat went wrong, but to seize theopportunity to build anew.Financial services have been anessential job creator in Britainand will continue to be so. Butour financial institutions left tothemselves have underminedour economy. We are enactingsweeping banking reform toprevent a repeat of the past;ensuring new support for thehigh-tech industries of thefuture, such as green industries;and taking action to forge anew culture of long-termism inbusiness.It isn’t markets or governmentsthat create wealth – people do,through their own effort andhard work. So we will do moreto support enterprise and to helpthose who want to build up abusiness and get on in life. Thosewho can work must do so and itneeds to be properly valued. Wewill end for good the concept ofa life on benefit by offering allthose unemployed for more thantwo years work they must accept,and we will make work pay betterwith the goal of a minimum wagerising at least in line with averageearnings and a guarantee thatpeople will be better off in workthan on benefit.As we more than halve the fiscaldeficit over the next four years,we will ensure that we do so in afair way with a combination of areturn to economic growth, cutsto lower priority programmesand fair tax rises. Responsibilityat the top means people payingtheir fair share and we believeit is right that those with thebroadest shoulders bear thegreatest burden of paying downthe deficit.Labour believes we shouldprotect frontline spendingon childcare, schools, theNHS and policing, andreform our public servicesto put people in control.Millions of people working inour public services embody thebest values of Britain, helpingempower people to make themost of their own lives whileprotecting them from the risksthey should not have to bearon their own. Just as we needto be bolder about the role ofgovernment in making marketswork fairly, we also need to bebold reformers of government.For a decade we have combinedinvestment and reform andimproved our public services.Now we need to rise to thechallenge of achieving evenhigher standards in a period ofconstrained resources. We willdrive forward our programmeto strip out all waste, improveefficiency and get the most out ofevery pound spent. We recognisethat investing more in priorityareas will mean cutting back in
others. Above all we will buildpublic services that are morepersonal to people’s needs: withclear guarantees about standards,the best providers taking overothers where they don’t makethe grade, and with new waysof organising services such asmutuals.In health, this means if we don’tmeet our guarantees, for exampleon waiting lists, the NHS will fundyou to go private. In education itmeans that if the local school isunderperforming it will be takenover; and parents who believetheir school is not good enoughcan trigger a ballot to change theleadership. And in policing, wherecommunities are being let downby forces we will enable them tobe taken over by others.Labour will strengthenour society, by protectingthe things people valueand demanding rights andresponsibilities from all.Our society is not broken; it isstrong in many different ways. Butit is changing fast. Changing withimmigration, changing as peoplemove more frequently, as youngpeople grow up more quickly andolder people live longer.We will protect the thingspeople value: families, strongcommunities, local institutions.We will create a new settlement inour country on how we care forthe elderly through the creationof a National Care Service, andfathers will have more time offto spend with their kids. Therewill be greater protection for thelocal institutions people value,like local post offices and pubs.In everything we do, we willdemand the responsibilities thatmust come with rights: to workwhen you can, not to abuse yourneighbour or neighbourhood,to show respect for Britain as anewcomer, to pay your fair shareof tax.Labour proposes radicalreform of our democracy toreconnect politics to the peopleit should serve. Just as the globaleconomic crisis was a shockto our economic system; theexpenses crisis created turmoil inour political system. It revealednot just unacceptable behaviourby some MPs but also that ourclosed political system had losttouch with people. Once again,the response cannot be to try andreturn to business as usual.We need fundamental reformof our politics to make it moreaccountable. We will let thepeople decide how to reformour institutions and our politics:changing the voting system andelecting a second chamber toreplace the House of Lords. Butwe will go further, introducingfixed-term parliaments, banningMPs from paid second jobsthat pose a conflict of interest,and providing for a free votein Parliament to widen thefranchise to 16 and 17 year olds.In 1997 New Labour met thecall of national renewal. Inour politics and economy overthe last 18 months, we havewitnessed seismic events. In thiselection, the first of the post-crisisera, we stand as the people withthe experience, values and ideasto help our country through thenext phase of national renewal.This task has always reliedon optimism. Our principleopponents, the Conservatives,offer a fundamentally pessimisticvision of national decline: aboutBritain today and in the future.Their only real prescription forthe good society is a smallerstate and the decisions they seekto make for our country wouldfavour the privileged few overthe many. They would isolateBritain, cutting us adrift from thealliances and influence that willenable us to succeed as a country.This is a Manifesto thatis idealistic about what ispossible but realistic abouthow to achieve it. This is nota conservative moment. It is aprogressive moment. We speakfor the ordinary people of thiscountry who work hard, wanttheir kids to do better thanthem, and worry about theeconomic, environmental andsocial challenges we face. Weare on their side, it is their voice,needs and hopes that shape thisprogramme.

