Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228060029.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL

Conservatives believe that high standards in education and training are the key to personal opportunity and national success. We believe in partnership with parents, choice in schools and a good grounding in the basic skills all children need to make a success of their lives. We are committed to widening opportunities without compromising academic standards. We will continue to expand higher education and training. We will reinforce the rights of the individual in the world of work, and break down artificial barriers to advancement. By extending opportunity and arming people with the power to choose, we will give valuable freedoms and a powerful spur to achievement.

SCHOOLS, PUPILS & PARENTS

We are now seeing real improvements in our education system. One in four young people goes on to higher education; at the beginning of the 1980s, it was only one in eight. Sixty per cent of 16 year-olds stay on in full-time education, up from only 40 per cent in 1979. And we have embarked on the most important and wide-ranging reforms since the 1940s.

For the first time in our history, we will soon have a National Curriculum which will require all the main school subjects to be covered thoroughly The testing of 7 year-olds is well under way and tests for older children are now being developed. Starting this September, GCSE courses will be steadily integrated with the National Curriculum.

Under the Parent's Charter, all schools will have to provide at least one written report on the progress of each child each year. Information on the performance of all local schools will be given to parents, enabling them to exercise choice more effectively

We believe all parents have the right to choice in education - not only those who can afford school fees. Young people differ in their interests and aptitudes, and we need a range of schools to offer them the best opportunities. We have always fought to maintain diversity in education, protecting the right of local people to preserve their grammar schools, and defending independent schools against mindless Labour attacks. And we have always valued the important contribution made by the churches to our children's education.

We have further increased diversity by:

    Giving schools control over their own budgets and encouraging new types of school.
    Allowing schools to become independent of local councils, by applying for Grant-Maintained status if the parents involved so wish. By mid-1992, over 200 GM schools will be up and running.
    Creating a number of highly popular City Technology Colleges.
    Launching the highly successful initiative under which schools are able to bid directly for the resources to become Technology Schools. 

We intend to take all these initiatives further and offer parents more choice in the new Parliament. Popular schools will be allowed to expand, and more schools will be able to apply for technology funding. We will make it easier for small schools to enjoy the benefits of GM status by grouping together.

    We will complete the introduction of the National Curriculum offering 10 subjects at a nationally-defined standard - English, Mathematics, Science, History, Geography, Technology, Art, Music, PE and, in secondary schools, a foreign language.
    Regular and straightforward tests will be in place for all 7, 11 and 14 year-olds by 1994.
    GCSE at age 16 will be integrated into the National Curriculum, with a new A+ grade to test the most able. The majority of marks will come from a written exam.
    We will continue to encourage the creation of nursery places. For the first time, over 50 per cent of three and four year olds have places either in nursery or primary schools.
    Full information will be published annually about the performance of all local schools in each area.
    Independent inspection of schools will provide parents with straightforward reports on their child's school, together with an action plan from governors to remedy any weaknesses.
    Popular schools which are over subscribed will he given the resources to expand.
    GM schools will be able to change their character if that is what parents clearly want and the change fits in with the wider needs of the local area.
    The Technology Schools Initiative will be expanded across the country.
    Existing schools which opt for GM status will be able to emulate City Technology Colleges and attract private technology sponsorship.
    We will maintain the Assisted Places scheme, which gives access to independent education to many families who could not otherwise afford it.
    We will ensure that the partnership between the state and the churches in education is maintained and strengthened.
    We will enable small schools to apply for GM status in groups.
    We will pay particular attention to raising educational standards in areas of deprivation in our cities. 

