Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_050033.txt

Press Release from Party: Greens

Lib Dems are The biggest eco-charlatans on this part of the planet

25 April 2010

As Nick Clegg today launched his partys environmental policies with a direct attack on the Greens, a Green Party spokesperson branded the Lib Dems the biggest eco-charlatans on this part of the planet:

Objectively speaking, the Lib Dems are the least trustworthy party on the environment. They have proven themselves the party most likely to say one thing and do another. Their track record is spotty to say the least.

They say they want a low-carbon economy with new green jobs. But last week they revealed a plan to put the pathetic sum of 3bn into this, promising only a few thousand new jobs. The Green Party, on the other hand, has started with science-based CO2 targets, done the arithmetic and shown how to pay for a 44bn green investment package, which would create over a million new jobs.

The Lib Dems talk about stopping roadbuilding but theyve supported practically every new road from the Newbury bypass to the M74, and theyre still supporting the Lancaster Northern Bypass. They opposed Heathrows third runway but theyve supported Manchesters second runway and airport expansions just about everywhere else. They talk about green waste management but they currently support incinerator projects in Exeter, Plymouth and Barnstaple. In Essex theyve proclaimed support for a zero waste strategy, which means no incineration, but theyre still supporting incinerators in Essex.

They say they want a zero carbon economy by 2050, but theyve opposed windfarm proposals in Cornwall, Cumbria, Devon and Worcestershire. In Lewisham they recently voted against a Green Party budget package that would have insulated 25,000 homes for free.

In their proposed green tax switch the Lib Dems promised to cut income tax and switch to green taxes on pollution instead  which means either wed have less money for schools and hospitals as we reduce pollution, or else we have to keep polluting in order to keep the tax revenue coming in.

Frankly, the Lib Dems are the biggest eco-charlatans on this part of the planet. 

