Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_010136.txt

Press Release from Party: LibDem

Liberal Democrats launch plans to stimulate a green economy

Mon, 19 Apr 2010

The Liberal Democrats will today launch plans to create jobs that last by stimulating a green, sustainable economy. The plans include investing in wind energy, energy efficiency in public buildings and homes, and bringing empty homes back into use through renovation.



Commenting, Liberal Democrat Leader Nick Clegg said:

This week I will be focusing on the most important issue of all in this election: how we can build a new economy from the rubble of the old.

Under Governments from the old parties, economic policy was made entirely subservient to the needs of just one square mile - the city of London.

Our vision of a new economy aims to provide growth that lasts for all 100,000 square miles of the UK. We have detailed plans to make our economy environmentally, financially and socially sustainable.

Today [Monday] I will set out further details of our costed plan for an immediate green job creation package, taking over 3bn of savings to invest in housing transport and green energy.

This will provide an immediate jobs boost and help create the green infrastructure we need for a low carbon economy.

On Tuesday and Wednesday I will unveil further proposals on restructuring our financial system and on boosting social mobility in the new economy.



The Liberal Democrats will begin our term in office with a one-year job creation and green economic stimulus plan. We have identified 3.1bn of public spending that can be stopped and the money used to create jobs and protect the environment. We will invest in wind energy, energy efficiency in public buildings and homes, and bring empty homes back into use through renovation.  And we will give extra support to young people, so their future is protected, with 800,000 internships to help build their experience.

Our economic stimulus plan will create more than 30,000 jobs, produce the conditions for thousands more and provide a million opportunities for young people across the UK. For more details refer to individual briefings on each proposal.



We will renovate and adapt facilities in seven North and Irish Sea ports so they can be used to build the giant turbines needed for off-shore wind energy as part of our first year economic stimulus plan. This will be a huge boost for Britains budding wind industry and create 12,000 jobs in many shipyard cities where unemployment is a huge problem.



We will launch an eco-cashback scheme to give people 400 towards energy efficient home improvements and small energy generation projects. People will be able to apply for the cash to help pay for double-glazing, boiler upgrades and micro generation such as solar panels, and domestic wind turbines.  The scheme will create 8,000 new jobs.



We will make a promise to young people that they will not spend more than 90 days on Jobseekers Allowance before they get training, education, an internship or a place on a work programme. We will do this by increasing the number of further education places, giving students financial support to return to college and creating a paid internship scheme. The internship scheme for up to 800,000 18-24 years olds will give them the opportunity to gain skills, qualifications and work experience even if they cant find a job. They would be paid 55 a week for up to three months.



We will protect schools from having to use their teaching and learning budgets to cut their carbon emissions as part of the Carbon Reduction Commitment (CRC) by investing 400 million in interest free loans. Schools will be able to use the loans to make energy saving renovations which will create an estimated 9,600 jobs.



Bringing 250,000 empty homes back into use. People who own these homes will get a grant or a cheap loan to renovate them so they can be used: grants if the home is for social housing, loans for private use.
Bus scrappage. We will invest 140m in a bus scrappage scheme that helps bus companies to replace old polluting buses with new low carbon ones and creates jobs.



In our first year in office we will redirect over 3.1bn of spending to our economic stimulus plan which will create jobs and build up Britains infrastructure. In the following years this money will be redirected to other Lib Dem spending priorities and reducing the structural deficit.

