Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040111.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


The Colonisation of Britain: Muslim Vote Pivotal in 82 Constituencies
April 7, 2010

OMVThe extent of the Islamic colonisation of Britain has been underlined with the news that the Muslim vote will be pivotal in 82 constituencies in the forthcoming general election.

According to a press release issued by the Muslim Public Affairs Committee (MPACUK), one of a myriad of front organisations dedicated to colonising Britain with the aid of the Tory/Labour immigration policy, the 82 constituencies have a Muslim population larger than the incumbent MPs majority.

Of 34 constituencies with a Muslim population of over 10,000, all but 4 have Labour MPs, the MPACUK statement said.

The Muslim vote could prove decisive with 82 constituencies having a Muslim population large enough to determine the result, MPACUK said.

As a result, the Muslims are organising through the network of at least 1,600 formal mosques which already exist in Britain.

Friday marks the official launch of Operation Muslim Vote as Muslims gather for weekly prayers, with tens of thousands of leaflets already being distributed by young volunteers across the country, the MPACUK said.

The campaign seeks to build on MPACUKs success in 2005 when our activists tipped the balance against pro-war, pro-Israel MP Lorna Fitzsimmons who lost by just 442 votes in Rochdale.

Our advert promoting voting is running throughout the day on Islam Channel reaching over one million British Muslims.

Local MPACUK teams are working with mosques to deliver voter registration drives through Friday sermons, events at community centres and womens groups, MPACUK said, adding that Translated leaflets are also being used to reach the older generation.

Responses to our door-to-door canvassing reveal the huge shift in political attitudes within the Muslim community in the wake of events ranging from the Iraq war and Gaza to recent victories by the BNP.

Muslim voters can no longer be taken for granted by Labour as a new politicised generation are becoming swing voters who demand action on issues from Palestine to anti-terror laws, said Rukiya Dadhiwala, MPACUK Campaign Coordinator.

MPACUK is not a fringe operation like Islam4UK. It is representative of mainstream Islam in Britain and operates within the established network of mosques to spread its message.

* According to the Office for National Statistics, the Muslim population in Britain grew by more than 500,000 to 2.4 million in the four years from 20042008, or ten times faster than the rest of society.

* Mohammed is now the most common name for baby boys born in London and three other English regions, official Government figures have shown.

The Islamic name overtook traditional choices like Jack, Thomas and Daniel to become the number one name in the West Midlands, Yorkshire and the Humber, and the North West, as well as in the capital, in 2008.

When various spellings of the Islamic prophet are added together  including Muhammad, Mohammad, Mohamed and Muhammed  the name is now more than twice as popular in London as the capitals second-ranked boys name, Daniel. There were 1,828 baby boys given the name Mohammed, including varients, in 2008, compared with only 844 who were called Daniel.

London is not the first European capital to see Mohammed become the number one name for baby boys. In Brussels, Amsterdam, Copenhagen and Oslo the name has already gained the top slot.

Posted in National News | Comments (155)

