Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_070021.txt

Press Release from Party: UKIP

UKIP says 'duck-off' to pond plan

Monday, 5th April 2010

UK schoolchildren are to be taught that Britain is part of France, Sweden, Denmark and a whole host of other European Countries  and that the English Channel is actually called the Anglo-French Pond.

In a shock move by Brussels bureaucrats, the UK taxpayer will pay over 1m to send schools new atlases that critics say wipe out 1000 years of history.

In the new maps, designed to foster cultural identification within this transfrontier region Britain is parcelled off to different parts of the continent under the Espace Manche Development Initiative.

Southern England, from Cornwall to Kent, is joined with northern France and becomes known as the TransManche zone. Its capital is Paris and it has its own socialist president, Alain Le Vern.

The West of Britain is parcelled off with parts of France, Spain and Portugal as part of a new Atlantic region.

Eastern Britain along with Sweden, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands and Norway becomes the North Sea region. And Scotland breaks away from Britain to become part of the Northern Periphery with parts of Norway, Greenland, Iceland and Finland.

The mapmakers state: "The Channel has become a zone of multiple interacting and overlapping activities.

"It is a shared space, a small Anglo-French internal sea; the interplay of activities both on and around what has become known as the Anglo-French Pond"

Eurocrats also admit they are trying to undo the work of geographer Ptolemy who named the Channel the Oceanus Britannicus in the second century AD.

The Conservatives are playing politics with the issue, claiming that Labour are spending money on wiping our nation off the map. However, the Tories fail to mention they themselves could do little to stop the plans, since they agree with Labour and the Lib Dems that the UK should stay in the EU, where 75% of the UKs laws are determined.

The only major party to advocate leaving the EU, UKIP, is outraged by the plans.

Nigel Farage MEP said: You couldnt make this up. If this information had come out a last week, most people would have thought it was an April Fools joke.

This new map shows that the lunatics really have taken over the asylum.

UKIP has launched its biggest ever manifesto for the 2010 general election, with the Party fielding a record number of parliamentary candidates this year.

Read the UKIP manifesto, including the policy on education and training, here.

Download UKIP's 'Mini Manifesto' here

