Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040057.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Andrew Brons is making his presence felt in parliament
March 25, 2010

andrewoffice3Today Andrew Brons made his third speech of the week at the European Parliament in Brussels. Since the beginning of March the British National Party MEP for Yorkshire and North East Lincolnshire has made SIXTEEN contributions in debate.

This morning Andrew told fellow MEPs:

The Rapporteur, Mr. Scicluna, said that the European Central Bank had tried to expand liquidity but that liquidity had not been passed on by the banks to their customers. That is true of the countries outside the Eurozone, as well as of those inside it.

My Party is pleased that the United Kingdom remains outside the Eurozone. A states currency must reflect the condition and needs of its own economy and not the average needs of twenty-seven different economies. However, keeping our own currency is only part of the answer.

The central problem is that credit creation and distribution is in the hands of private companies, the commercial banks, outside as well as inside the Eurozone. The function of credit creation  in effect money creation  must be removed from the hands of private banks.

Extra spending power, when it is needed, either to distribute existing or imminent growth or needed to finance large infrastructure projects (in times of recession) must be created by the Government and spent into circulation and not created by the banks and lent into circulation.

Yesterday Andrew was twice on his feet giving the European Parliament the benefit of his thoughts on the problems of Greece in the Eurozone and European Union manipulated democracy.

On Greece he said:

The troubles of Greece in the Eurozone should not be seen as an exception. A single currency for such a large and economically heterogeneous region of the world is self-evidently problematic.

The value of a currency should reflect the condition of a states economy. When the economy of a country thrives, the value of its currency will tend to rise. When an economy falls into recession, the value of a currency will tend to fall.

The state of the economy of Greece requires a depreciation of its currency. If it had experienced that depreciation, it would have benefited from a tourist boom.

The Euro is not a solution to economic problems; it is the problem.

The difficulty for Greece is that if it pulled out of the Eurozone now, it would find that the fall in the value of its reverted currency would multiply its foreign debt.It is truly imprisoned in the Eurozone.

This should be a warning to countries that are not yet in the Eurozone. Join it your peril. Once inside, you will be locked in forever.

On the European Citizens Initiative (the provision for referendums to be called by a million citizens of EU states), Andrew had this to say:

The use of the referendum  direct democracy  is not an exotic version of democracy; it is the original form  government by the people and not government on behalf of the people.

So, perhaps we should be grateful to the European Union for introducing it? I think not! The EU only likes democracy when it can manage it and arrange for a result that it wants.

We have heard that the power to call such a referendum will be limited by mischievous provisions such as: the European Unions competence; and the EUs own version of Human Rights, which means political repression and limitations on freedom of speech and even on freedom of thought.

One final point is that democracy means government by the people (an identifiable and cohesive unit) and not government by an arbitrary collection of persons. Mass migration has made this difficult to achieve. Europe, as a whole, has become even less of a single people than it might otherwise have been.

Nevertheless, it is better than nothing and we might at least be able to demonstrate that this initiative was a hollow promise.

Posted in National News | Comments (58)

