Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228020010.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

The Labour Party Manifesto 2010Supporting families throughout life

Families and older people

The challenge for Britain

To support all families in a rapidly changing world thatplaces new and rising demands on all of us. We will helpfamilies to realise their aspirations — whatever theircircumstances — and we recognise the huge contributionolder people make to society and to family life. TheTories propose a marriage tax allowance that is divisiveand unfair, will neglect growing care needs among frailelderly people and disabled adults, and prioritise onlythe privileged few.The next stage of national renewal• More help for parents to balance work and family life,with a ‘Father’s Month’ of flexible paid leave.• A new Toddler Tax Credit of £4 a week from 2012 to givemore support to all parents of young children – whetherthey want to stay at home or work.• The right to request flexible working for older workers,with an end to default retirement at 65, enabling morepeople to decide for themselves how long they choose tokeep working.• A new National Care Service to ensure free care in thehome for those with the greatest care needs and a capon the costs of residential care so that everyone’s homesand savings are protected from care charges after twoyears in a care home.• A re-established link between the Basic State Pensionand earnings from 2012; and help for ten millionpeople to build up savings through new Personal PensionAccounts.

Strong families are the bedrockof our society. Secure and stablerelationships between parents,their children, grandparentsand other family members arethe foundation on which strongcommunities are built. Today,parents have rising aspirationsfor their children and greaterchoice about how they leadtheir family and working lives.Our society is ageing asmany more of us live longand fulfilling lives, active inour communities as we enjoyretirement. Retired people bringgreat strengths to our society –as carers for family members,active grandparents, and pillarsof local civic life.Substantial challenges stillremain. Today, tough financialtimes are placing extra pressureson families – adding to the dailychallenges many already facein going out to work to earna decent income, look after ahome, and care for children orolder relatives. In many familiesthese pressures fall particularlyon mothers. And like everyindustrialised country across theworld, we need to adjust to anageing society – where demandfor health provision will grow,and where the need for care willrise rapidly.We need services that helpfamilies manage these newpressures without creating hugeadditional costs. We need togo further to secure fairness inlater life and ensure that thosewho plan and save for theirretirement are rewarded fordoing so. The additional costsand burdens of old age must notfall disproportionately on thosewho have made provision forthemselves and their families.

Strengthening family life
Children thrive best in familiesin which relationships arestable, loving and strong. Wesupport couples who want to getmarried and for whom marriageoffers the best environmentto raise children. Marriage isfundamental to our society,but financial support shouldbe directed at all children, notjust those with married parents.We reject proposals that wouldskew resources to the wealthy, orpenalise loving and committedadults who, for whatever reason,are not married, and stigmatisetheir children.In today’s fast-changing world,parents want to be confidentthey have the informationand choices they need toprotect their children. We willcontinue to promote internetsafety for children, building onthe recommendations of DrTanya Byron’s review. We willsupport parents who challengeaggressive or sexualisedcommercial marketing. Wewill ask Consumer Focus todevelop a website for parentsto register their concerns aboutsexualised products aimed attheir children.We have established the FamilyJustice Review to examinereforms to the family justicesystem making it more childfocusedand family-centred.Parents who are clear theirrelationship has broken downand cannot be restored needmore help to reach agreementabout future arrangements earlyon in the process, for the benefitof their children.No child left behind inpovertyNo child should have to growup in poverty. The currentpressures on the personalfinances of families make thegoal of ending child povertymore urgent than ever. So wewill continue to make progresstowards our historic goal ofending child poverty by 2020,building on the 2010 ChildPoverty Act.In the next Parliament, we willfocus on helping families intojobs and out of poverty. Whereparents, especially mothers, wantto stay at home or work parttimewe will do more to helpfamilies with younger children,reducing poverty in those vitalearly years of a child’s life. Wewill ensure that work always paysfor hard-working lone parents.The child element of the ChildTax Credit will be increasedby £4 a week for families withchildren aged one and two from2012, paid regardless of themarital status of the parents –a Toddler Tax Credit.A better work-life balanceMore than ever, families wantsupport in balancing thepressures of work and home. Tohelp parents strike this balancewe will extend real choice toparents over how they organisetheir parental leave.We have already increasedpaid maternity leave to ninemonths. We continue to believethat one year’s paid leave inthe baby’s first year wouldbe of great benefit to parentsand their children. However,in the current economiccircumstances, progress willinevitably be tougher. So wewill introduce more flexibilityto the nine months’ paid leavethat mothers currently enjoy– allowing them to share thisentitlement with fathers after aminimum of six months.We will introduce a newFathers’ Month, four weeksof paid leave rather than thecurrent two. We will also workwith employers on how this canbe taken flexibly – for instance,two weeks around the birth, andthe remaining two weeks takenflexibly over the first year of thebaby’s life, including the optionof sharing these extra weeksbetween parents. This will bepaid for as savings accrue fromhousing benefit through ourreforms.
Our new agenda for familiesmust reflect the change inworking patterns that hasemerged over the last 20 years.A high proportion of parentsno longer work the traditionalday, while increasing numbersof families depend on part-timework to manage their caringand job responsibilities. Manystill struggle to find quality parttimejobs that use their skills, sowe will promote the creation ofmore highly skilled, quality jobsfor parents who choose to workmore flexibly.We created the right to requestflexible working for parentsand carers so that millions ofindividuals and their familiescould exercise more choiceabout how to balance theirwork and caring responsibilities.But as the burden of caringincreases in our society weneed to go further. By the endof the next Parliament we willensure that the right to flexibleworking is extended for olderpeople, recognising that many,including grandparents, wantto vary their hours to thebenefit of their families andto accommodate changinglifestyles. We will consult on theage at which this right shouldapply.Helping older people whowant to workAge discrimination in theworkplace has been banned.As well as promoting flexibleworking, we will now proceedto end default retirement at 65,with a review to establish theright way in which to supportmore people to work longershould they choose to do so. Toexpand the choices availablefor those wishing to work afterretirement, we will enablepeople aged 60 and over toclaim Working Tax Credit ifthey work at least 16 hours aweek, rather than 30 hours asat present.A good quality of life inolder ageThe vast majority of olderpeople are well and active,helping to strengthen ourfamilies, communities andwider society. Many charities,voluntary organisations andschools value and rely on thecontribution of older peopleand we support the growingnumber of excellent initiativescreating greater understandingacross the generations. Wewill continue to support olderpeople in getting involved intheir community by providingmatched funding for communityprojects.Parents who are able to callon grandparents to helpwith childcare, or duringemergencies, know howessential their support is to astrong family life. Grandparentswho give up work to help carefor their grandchildren mustnot lose out, so they will receiveNational Insurance Creditstowards their state pension. Wewill remove the requirementon grandparents to apply forthe court’s permission beforemaking an application forcontact with their grandchildrenand we will ensure thatgrandparents and other familymembers are always given firstconsideration for adoption orfostering.Better pensions for all,tackling pensioner povertyOur commitment to fairnesshas put pensioner povertyat the top of our agenda forBritain. Older-age poverty hasbeen dramatically reducedcompared to a generation ago.We recognise that it is rightthat pensions should rise in linewith the nation’s wealth. So toincrease security in retirement,we will restore the link betweenthe basic state pension andearnings from 2012 – a linkbroken by the Tories in 1980.Pension credit, which ensuresthat no pensioner need live onless than £132.60 per week
or £202.40 for couples, andsupports the income of 2.7million pensioner households,will also rise in line withearnings. Six in ten pensionerscurrently pay no income tax.We will continue to provide helpto pensioners, with the WinterFuel Payments (maintainedthis winter at £250 for thoseover state retirement age and£400 for those aged 80 or over);concessionary public-transportfares; free TV licences for theover-75s; and free eye tests andprescriptions.Saving for pensionsAs a country, we need tosave more for retirement –individuals, employers, andthe Government will all needto play their part. We willsupport ten million low-andmiddle-income people to buildup savings through automaticenrolment in occupationalpensions and new PersonalPension Accounts, ensuring thateveryone in work is entitled tomatched contributions fromemployers and government.We will continue to makepension saving more attractivefor individuals throughfavourable tax treatment. Andwe will promote stakeholderpensions offering simple, lowcostand flexible products,obliging employers to provideaccess to a pension for allemployees. We will continue toprotect pension schemes whena firm’s company scheme goesbust. We are also introducingmore flexibility to make it easierfor companies to run goodschemes.Between now and 2020 theState Pension Age for womanwill rise to 65; and between2024 and 2046, it will rise to68 for both men and women,helping to keep state pensionsaffordable in the long term.The reforms we are making topublic-sector pensions will keepthem sustainable and affordableover the long term.The National Care Serviceand an age-friendly NHSThe cornerstone of a fair futureis ensuring everyone who needscare and support, whetherthrough old age or disability,is properly looked after. Wewill establish a new NationalCare Service and forge a newsettlement for our country asenduring as that which theLabour Government built after1945. It will be a new settlementfor all those who need care,for the carers who devote theirtime and energy for the good ofothers, and for families acrossthe country. The care of botholder people and disabled adultswill be transformed; unfairpostcode lotteries removed;more people will be looked afterat home; and family homesand savings will be protectedfrom catastrophic care costs.To provide independence andcontrol for everyone with a careneed we will continue to expandthe use of individual budgets.And to drive up standards, wewill develop a skilled and highlymotivated workforce.The first stage of reform willbe to create a step-change inthe provision of services in thehome and in our communities.From 2011 we will protect morethan 400,000 of those with thegreatest needs from all chargesfor care in the home, and wewill create a national physiosupport service helping peoplein every area of the country toregain their independence andconfidence after a crisis or thefirst time they need care. Theseservices are essential if we are toensure more people are lookedafter in their homes and overallcosts are to be controlled. Theywill be funded through savingsand efficiencies in the healthbudget and in local government.During the next Parliament,the second stage of reformwill centre on the developmentof national standards andentitlements to ensure highqualitycare for all, and an end
to the unfair postcode lotteriesthat affect too many families.We also want to remove thefear that families will lose thefamily home in order to payfor care bills. So, from 2014,the National Care Service willcap the costs of residential careso that everyone’s homes andsavings are protected from carecharges after two years. Wewill pay for this through ourdecision to freeze InheritanceTax Thresholds until 2014-15,by supporting more people overthe State Pension Age to stayin work if they so wish, andthrough efficiencies across theNHS and the care system.The final stage of reform, after2015, will be a comprehensiveNational Care Service, free atthe point of use not just forolder people, but all adults withan eligible care need whoeverthey are, wherever they live andwhatever condition leads tothem needing care. At the startof the next Parliament we willestablish a Commission to reacha consensus on the right wayof financing this system. TheCommission will determine theoptions which should be opento individuals so that peoplecan have choice and flexibilityabout how they pay and toensure that the National CareService is funded in a fair way.The Commission will makerecommendations in time forimplementation of the thirdstage of reform after 2015, oncethese proposals have been put tothe public at a general election.Across the NHS we will improveand personalise care for theelderly and their families. Thiswill mean more NHS servicesavailable in the home, withgreater use of tele-care andpersonal nursing; reform ofthe GP contract to help ensurethose with late-life depressionand anxiety are diagnosed andsupported; and better servicesfor those with dementia andAlzheimer’s so that every areaof the country has accessto psychological therapy,counselling and memory clinics.There will be an end to the age-discriminationthat has too oftenseen older people disadvantagedin the provision of healthservices.
