Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060017.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------


Build a greener economyWe will reduce UK greenhouse gas emissions and increase our share of global markets for lowcarbon technologies.

Labour have said the right things on climatechange, but these have proved little more thanwarm words. Despite three White Papers,a multitude of strategies and endless newannouncements, the UK now gets more of itsenergy from fossil fuels than it did in 1997. Ourperformance on emissions has been criticisedby environmental groups and we have the worstrecord of any major EU nation when it comesto renewable energy. This must change tosafeguard Britain and the world’s future.We need to cut our carbon emissions to tacklethe challenge of climate change. But thelow carbon economy also provides excitingopportunities for British businesses. We willencourage private sector investment to putBritain at the forefront of the green technologyrevolution, creating jobs and new businessesacross the country.Create a low carbon futureThis wave of low carbon innovation we wantto unleash requires investment, so we willcreate Britain’s first Green Investment Bank– which will draw together money currentlydivided across existing government initiatives,leveraging private sector capital to financenew green technology start-ups. We will create
green Individual Savings Accounts to helpprovide the financial backing we need to createa low carbon economy.A credible and sustainable price for carbonis vital if we are to see adequate and timelyinvestment in new electricity generation.Whatever the carbon content of electricitygenerated, operators considering newinvestments in projects with a life of severaldecades need to know where they stand. Wewill reform the Climate Change Levy toprovide a floor price for carbon, deliveringthe right climate for investment in low carbonenergy production.We will increase the proportion of tax revenuesaccounted for by environmental taxes, ensuringthat any additional revenues from new greentaxes that are principally designed as anenvironmental measure to change behaviourare used to reduce the burden of taxationelsewhere.
