Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228050005.txt

Party Manifesto: Green (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

work and jobs
Working to live,not living to workThe loss of jobs that has gone withmismanagement of an unsustainableeconomic model is a criminal waste oftalent and aspiration, and has turned life intoa daily struggle for survival for millions ofour fellow citizens. As top bankers continueto pocket your money in the form ofunearned bonuses, factories, firms and farmsare forced to lay off more and more workersby the day, week and month.This must end. Our major and immediatepriority is the creation of an extra millionjobs and training places within a full year ofoperation of our major investment plan, theGreen New Deal. This would address both theemployment and the environmental problems.It would consist of a package of measures
described throughout this manifesto, includingworkforce training, investment in renewables,public transport, insulation, social housingand waste management.
We would also:• Offer Green workforce training and anenvironmental community programmeincluding training courses for jobs in energyconservation and renewable energy, withgrant-funded conversion courses for skilledengineers from other industries.We wouldspend £5bn in the next year on creating350,000 training places, offering opportunitiesto 700,000 unemployed people, in particularthe young unemployed.• Work towards a 35-hour working week.Full time UK employees work the longestaverage hours in Europe: 43.5 hours, asagainst 38.2 in France and 39.9 in Germany.A 35-hour week will both improve thework/life balance, help to share out work,and be part of a just transition to a low-carboneconomy.• Resist any weakening of the Working TimeDirective.• Promote gender equality. The pay gapper hour between men and women remainsas high as 38% for part-time workers; retiredwomen’s incomes are typically 40% less thanmen’s. Our policies on Citizen’s Pension,childcare and non-discrimination at workwill help to fill these gaps.• Introduce equal pay audits for largeremployers• Promote legal changes to make it mucheasier for women to take equal pay cases tocourt, and to allow women to take such casesas a group.• Require 40% of board membersof larger companies to be female withinfive years.• Introduce more generous maternity andpaternity leave.• Spend £1bn a year on enhancing andexpanding Sure Start Children’s Centres,creating 10,000 jobs. Sure Start has been
proved to make a real difference to the livesof some of our poorest children.• Support a National Minimum Wage thatis a living wage, at 60% of net nationalaverage earnings (currently this would meana minimum wage of £8.10 per hour). Thispolicy will lead to an estimated saving of upto £6bn a year in Tax Credits, and furthersavings not quantified here on Council Taxand Housing Benefits.• Work towards ensuring that the maximumwage in any organisation is no more thanten times the minimum wage in thatorganisation.• Ensure that no one is forced to retirebefore they want to.• Reject workfare and forcing unemployedpeople into unsuitable jobs by removingbenefits.• Radically increase the amounts people onbenefits can earn, perhaps to the equivalentof 6 hours work at the minimum wage(‘earnings disregards’), without having theirbenefits withdrawn. Participating honestly insuch part-time work is the best route backinto employment.• Uphold the right to join or form a tradeunion, to obtain union representation and totake industrial action, and repeal anti-tradeunion laws.• Support unions in their roles as health andsafety and environment representatives.• Ensure that workers’ rights apply to part-time,casual workers and the self-employed,and from the first day of employment.• Oppose discrimination in the workplace,whether on the on grounds of sex, race,family status or responsibilities, disability,sexual orientation, religious belief or age.• Value and protect carers, and volunteers.• Support moves towards workplacedemocracy and ensure that workers andformer workers control their pension funds.• Support a greater role for mutuals, likeworker co-operatives. In particular, preventfurther existing mutuals from being changedinto companies, consider returning NorthernRock to the mutual sector and introduce aprocess whereby in certain circumstances anorganisation can be turned into a mutual ifits workers or customers wish to do so.A first application for this latter processwould be football clubs.

Our energy policy is not just the best for climate change –it also produces the most jobs:energy source and jobs per year per terawatt hourWind 918–2400Coal 370Gas and oil 250–265Nuclear 75But the real winner for creating jobs is energy efficiency, like our proposals for insulation.It has been estimated that an energy efficiency increase of 1% a year, sustained over a ten-yearperiod, would create 200,000 additional jobs in the EU sustained over ten years.

Green councillors in Norwich defend local servicesWorking with local residents, Norwich South Parliamentary candidate Adrian Ramsay andother Norwich Green Councillors successfully campaigned to stop the County Council fromclosing the Sure Start nursery on Wolfe Road in Thorpe Hamlet. Sure Start centres providevital support for parents and their young children. Greens are working to protect them fromfurther cuts.

