Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030144.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

SNP champions Scotland's students
Tue, 27/04/2010 - 12:23


SNP Education Secretary Michael Russell  joined the SNPs
candidates for Lanark & Hamilton East Clare Adamson, Rutherglen & Hamilton West Graeme Horne and student leaders to sign the NUS Pledge at the University of the West of Scotland.

NUS Scotland research shows that 38 out of 59 constituencies have
greater numbers of students (on the basis of their home time address) than the majority at the 2005 election. This includes all 17 marginal constituency (less than 5000 majority) in Scotland.

The Vote for Students pledge - I pledge to vote against any increase in fees in the next parliament and to pressure the government to introduce a fairer alternative.

Commenting, Mr Russell said:

Scotland has a proud tradition of free education based on the ability to learn, not the ability to pay.  The SNP have restored this principle in Scotland by scrapping the graduate endowment.

Were also investing record amounts in the university sector and support for students.

And its working - this year, 60% of students came  from deprived areas to take up degree courses at Scottish universities or colleges after the endowment was scrapped.

"SNP MPs have always championed higher education at Westminster.  When Scottish Labour MPs inflicted tuition fees on English students the SNP opposed that move.  The SNP knows that the implications of lifting the cap on tuition fees in England could well be fewer resources for Scotland and a bigger challenge for Scottish students.

The SNP will continue to champion first class higher education in both Scotland and at Westminster. On May 6th, dont just elect a politician, elect a local champion who will stand up for free education in Scotland.

Welcoming the SNPs support, NUS President Liam Burns said:

"Any increase in fees elsewhere in the UK will lead to a really damaging funding gap for students in Scotland, with an increase in fees likely to mean cuts to the Scottish budget and a brain drain in academics from Scotland's universities. Scottish candidates cannot body swerve this as an

"English issue" and I'm glad the SNP are once again, on this issue,
supporting Scottish students against increased top-fees elsewhere in the
UK.

"It was Scottish MPs that rail-roaded top-up fees through Parliament in
the first place. Given how close the election looks at the moment,
Scottish students will be looking for assurances that they won't do the
same again.

"There are a number of Scottish constituencies where the student vote will be decisive. We have worked to get as many students as possible registered to vote for this election and we will be working right up until election day to get more candidates from across the parties signed up to pledge to protect Scottish students from increased top-up fees elsewhere in the UK.

"If candidates say no to the pledge, students will say no at the ballot box.
Filed under:

    students
    Westminster


