Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060039.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------


promote OUR national interest | INTRODUCTIONA stronger Britain in a safer world
A Conservative government will defend our national security and support our brave ArmedForces in everything they do. We will promote our national interest with an active foreign policy.We will work constructively with the EU, but we will not hand over any more areas of power andwe will never join the Euro. We will honour our aid commitments and make sure this money worksfor the poorest nations.This country possesses great assets and advantages – a permanent seat on the UN SecurityCouncil, a leading role in NATO, a strong relationship with the United States, a major role in theaffairs of the EU, and Armed Forces that are the envy of the world. We are a global trading nationand home to the world’s pre-eminent language.But, looking a decade or two ahead, powerful forces of economics and demography elsewherein the world will make it harder for us to maintain our influence. All this in a world that isbecoming more dangerous, where threats as diverse as state failure, international terrorism andnew forms of warfare are being amplified by the impact of climate change and the spread of nuclearweapons technology. In a world of shifting economic power and increased threats, the UK standsto lose a great deal of its ability to shape world affairs unless we act to reverse our declining status.We no longer inhabit a world in which foreign and defence issues can be separated fromdomestically-generated threats. Instead, we live in a world in which dangers, events and actionsabroad are inter-dependent with threats to our security at home. We must meet the threats we facewith a concerted response from the state. That response cannot just come from how we conduct ourforeign affairs, or organise our defence and internal security – it must cut across energy, education,community cohesion, health, technology, international development and the environment too.

