Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228050017.txt

Party Manifesto: Green (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

Citizensand Government

consumers andcitizens, publicand private

consumersMost people living now are much richer thanpeople living in 1950. But we haven’t got anyhappier.Why not? Partly because evidenceshows that, once we have a certain minimumincome, what mainly concerns us is ourposition relative to everyone else. So if societyis more equal we are happier; if it is unequalwe want to live the lives of rich celebrities.And we are unhappy if we don’t achieve ouraims. So a growing material economy withincreasing inequality, as we have had for thepast thirty years, not only ruins the planetbut also undermines well-being.Of course money is vital, and too manypeople in Britain today don’t have enough ofit. That is why Green taxation and economicsare aimed at making a more equal, as well asa more sustainable, society. But other thingsimprove well-being too. Also important arefamily relationships, the quality of work,friends, the natural world, health and freedom.All these things require space and time –space and time that are increasingly unavailablein a society dedicated to getting and spending.A society less dedicated to material growthwill not only avoid ecological collapse butalso make us more content.citizensAs citizens we think of the good of everyoneand of the future, and not just what we thinkis good for ourselves, now. Creating a fair and
sustainable society is a job for government atall levels – but it is also a job for us as citizens.The Green Party will work towards sustainableconsumption through the creation of a citizenculture as well as the more efficient use ofresources.A particular concern for the Green Party isto respect the right of future generations ofcitizens not to be disadvantaged by damagethat this generation does to the environment.We must also support solidarity betweenexisting generations, between young and old.public and privateWe would spearhead a revival in publicspaces – libraries, parks, playgrounds.Fairness and sustainability require a publiceffort. Millions of unco-ordinated actionsaimed at maximising individuals’ privateinterest will not bring about the society wewant and deserve. Only citizens, aided by aGreen Government, can do that.We would initiate a revolution in trust.We’ve got the location and balance ofregulation wrong: banks are under-regulatedand citizens are over-regulated.Citizens and workers are infantilised byhealth and safety, ground down by audit.The paraphernalia of surveillance costs afortune and assumes we will behave badlyunless we are threatened into behaving well.We believe this dog–whistle relationship withcitizens is counterproductive. The Green Partywill trust citizens and workers, not over-regulatethem.

