Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228010032.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

6. Britain's Democracy: Electoral and Constitutional Reform

Liberal Democrats, alone in British politics, recognise that unless we change Britain's system of government, we cannot change Britain's future. Without constitutional reform, we will not achieve our other objectives.

We believe in citizenship, not subjecthood - in the ability of all individuals to exercise power over the institutions that govern their lives. The creation of a modernised democracy therefore lies at the heart of our proposals.

We recognise too that Britain's success in the next century will depend not just on changing what we do, but in changing the way in which we do it. However worthy its intentions, and however able its personnel, no government will be able to put Britain right unless and until it has modernised our constitution.

Fair Voting for an Effective Parliament

Our current 'winner takes all' system of voting has many faults. It is unfair, unstable and divisive. Government by minority is usually bad government: in no truly democratic country could a disaster like the poll tax have been pushed through in defiance of public opinion, wasting billions of pounds and causing misery to millions of people. Our top priority is therefore the introduction of fair votes for all electinos at all levels of government.

Fair votes will make every elector's vote count. It will increase citizens' control over their elected representatives, by abolishing safe seats. It will eradicate the power of the extremist minority in political parties. It will lead to a better choice of candidates and ensure that more women and candidates from minority ethnic communities are elected. Above all, it will reduce tit-for-tat politics and introduce much greater stability into government, allowing individuals and businesses alike to plan for their future with confidence.

We will:

    Bring in fair votes. We will introduce proportional representation for all elections at local, national and European levels. We propose the single transferable vote, by which electors cast their votes in multi-member constituencies based on natural communities.
    Introduce fixed-term Parliaments of four years, with a known data for the next election, subject to an earlier election only if the government loses a special 'explicit' vote of no confidence.
    Reform the House of Lords. We will maintain a second chamber as a Senate, primarily elected by the citizens of the nations and regions of the United Kingdom. It will have power to delay all legislation other than money bills for up to two years.
    Improve the way Parliament works. We will give MPs greater influence over the executive by boosting the powers of Select Committees, improving staff backup for backbenchers and increasing financial and civil service support for opposition parties. We will improve the quality of legislation by establishing pre-legislative committees and better scrutiny of delegated legislation. We will improve the quality of debates by allocating time for business more fairly, timetabling Committee sessions of bills and ending Parliament's late-night sittings.

Bringing Power to the People

Our system of government is far too centralised, and fails to make effective use of the talents and skills available across the country. We believe that political power is best exercised at the most local level possible, consistent with good government.

We will:

    Introduce Home Rule for Scotland, with the immediate creation of an elected Scottish Parliament.
    Introduce Home Rule for Wales, with the immediate creation of an elected Welsh Senedd.
    Reform and strengthen local government, removing unnecessary tiers, restoring councils' independence and ensuring theyr are accountable to the people through a fair voting system.
    Create the framework for regional government in England. We will enable the establishment of fully democratic regional governments throughout England. We will set up a Strategic Authority for London as a priority. Preceding the new regional governments, we will establish regional development agencies throughout England, helping to boost economic development and prosperity.
    Decentralise power to new national and regional governments. Economic development, housing, health, social services, roads and public transport, education and planning are functions which should be devolved from Whitehall and brought nearer the people they most affect.

Strengthening Local Government

The current Government's approach to local government finance - most notably through the poll tax fiasco - has been to destroy the independence of local authorities by reducing their powers to raise and spend revenue. The Liberal Democrats approach is exactly the opposite: we aim to take power away from Westminster and Whitehall, giving new powers to stronger, more independent and more democratic local councils - elected by fair votes.

We will:

    Abolish the poll tax, cancel plans for the proposed Council Tax and introduce a Local Income Tax, related to ability to pay and collected by the Inland Revenue. Local Income Tax is easy to understand, easy to administer, and fair. It works effectively in many other countries.
    Replace the Uniform Business Rate with Site Value Rating - locally administered and based on the taxation of land values (with exemption for agricultural land and domestic properties). This will create incentives to improve property, rather than leave it undeveloped. Administration will be easier and local accountability will be restored.
    Reform and strengthen local government. We will reform princial local councils into a unitary system based on natural communities and the wishes of local people. We will give the new authorities greater responsibilities - for example, over education, health and planning - and freedom to ensure the delivery of services in ways they think best. Local authorities will be given a 'general power of competence', which will allow them to carry out any beneficial local action which neither duplicates the work of other public bodies nor breaks the law.
    Bring local government nearer to the people, by enabling the formation of a full network of community, parish, town or neighbourhood coucils. We will ensure that all tiers of regional and local government publish a 'Charter of Services', giving citizens clear rights to standards of service, and remedies if these are not met.

Consulting Local Citizens

Local Democrats want local councils to be as responsive and accountable to their local citizens as possible. We will introduce across the country an initative pioneered by Liberal Democrat-run councils such as South Somerset and Richmond.

We will require every council to conduct an annual survey of all its residents to gauge their views on the quality of local services. A summary of the results of the survey, compared to the previous year's findings, will be published with the annual demand for local income tax, so that every resident is able to tell what their council is achieving with the money they pay.

Ensuring Citizens' Rights and Opportunities

No citizen is truly free unless all are. Individual citizens and minority communities themselves need protection against the power of the state and against discrimination and unfair treatment. Citizens must have rights of access to information about decisions taken by public authorities in their name.

We will:

    Introduce a Freedom of Information Act, placing responsibility on government and other authorities to justify secrecy. We will reverse the present Government's encroachments on freedom of speech and association, such as the banning of trade unions at GCHQ. We will legislate to give individuals the right to access to their personal files, except in matters relating to national security, whether held by public or private bodies. Security services and intelligence agencies should be accountable to a committee of senior Privy Councillors.
    Enact a Bill of Rights by immediately incorporating the European Convention on Human Rights and its protocols into UK law. We will create a Commission of human rights to help people bring proceedings under the Bill and to recommend changes in existing law and practice. In due course we will add rights and freedoms not currently included in the Convention, extending into a full UK Bill of Rights.
    Take tougher action against discrimination. Our Bill of Rights will guarantee effective protection against discrimination on the grounds of sex, race, age, disability, religion or sexual orientation. Our Commission of Human Rights will help individuals take legal action in cases of discrimination.
    End the bias against women's participation in the present political system. The introduction of fair votes and of sensible Parliamentary conditions will increase both the number of eomen candidates and the number of women MPs. In addition, we will use government's powers of appointment to ensure fair representation of women on public bodies.
    Improve the administration of the legal system with the establishment of a Ministry of Justice, separating responsibility for civil liberties and justice from that for order and security. We will establish a Judicial Services Commission to appoint judges.
    Adopt a written constitution, of which the Bill of Rights will form the centrepiece. We will create a Supreme Court to entrench and defend these fundamental reforms to the relationship between the citizen and the state.

