Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040174.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Fund the NHS, not Foreign Wars
April 26, 2010

Health experts have warned of Third World wards in Britain as a result of funding cuts proposed by the Labour/Lib Dem/Tory stooge party  while the British National Party has called for a halt to the Afghanistan war and the 5 billion spent there to be deployed in the NHS.

A report from the Royal College of Nursing (RCN) has identified 5,600 jobs which are under threat in just 26 hospital trusts as a result of plans to make budget cuts after the election.

The RCN said the number of jobs  which it said would inevitably impact upon nurses  could rise to more than 36,000 in a worst-case scenario if the figures were extrapolated across all 170 trusts.

Last week, Health Secretary Andy Burnham announced a planned 20 billion efficiency savings in the NHS by 2014.

Dr Peter Carter, RCN general secretary, was quoted as saying that it was disingenuous to suggest that 20 billion could be removed from the NHS budget without it affecting front-line services.

Despite assurances that the NHS budget will be protected, the reality is that locally, trusts are making deep and dangerous cuts to staff numbers now, with further cuts planned for the future, Dr Carter said.

This interpretation was supported by Howard Catton, head of policy at the RCN, who was also quoted as saying that there is clear evidence that front-line staff are being targeted by savings.

It is creating a perception among nurses that they are being pushed to the front of the queue while managers appear to be much further down the line.

If you take away front-line staff you reduce quality of service. In the very worst case scenario this can cost lives, Mr Catton said.

The 20 billion cut is less than half of what was spent on the Tory/Labour-supported war in Iraq, which cost the taxpayers 7 billion a year.

The war in Afghanistan costs the taxpayer 5 billion per year and army chiefs have warned that British troops could be there for between five and twenty years.

Meanwhile, a new poll has found that spending on the NHS should be one of the highest priorities for the new government after immigration and the economy.

According to the poll, commissioned by the RCN, public support for spending in the NHS ranked above other areas including law and order.

The British National Party has called for an immediate halt to British intervention in the Tory/Labour/Lib Dem warmongering in Afghanistan.

The BNP argues that the billions spent fighting that illegal and immoral war should instead be spent providing front-line services to British people, including the NHS.

Posted in National News | Comments (33)

