Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228050027.txt

Party Manifesto: Green (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

• Act to reduce arms sales worldwide byending Government support for and subsidiesof arms exports, including through UK Trade& Investment’s Defence & Security Organisationand the Export Credits Guarantee Department.• Press for successful negotiations overa robust and comprehensive global ArmsTrade Treaty.• Use skills and resources at present tied upin military industry in the UK to create newjobs and produce socially useful products,especially in the renewable energy sector.• Not participate in the US missile defencesystem, and leave NATO.• Recognise the importance of civil societyorganisations and of a free press worldwideand their role in promoting transparency,democracy, good governance and fightingcorruption.• Reform the UN and other internationalinstitutions. The current structure of the UNSecurity Council, with permanent seats forFrance, the UK, the US, Russia and China, is
made undemocratic and often impotent by
the right to veto. Poor countries in particularneed better representation.We will workto reform the United Nations by abolishingall permanent seats on the Security Counciland introducing decision-making bymajority vote.• Outlaw the use of torture, includingthe practice of extraordinary rendition.We support free speech and the rightto protest.• The EU needs a proper constitution,but the Lisbon Treaty is not up to the job.A European Constitution should define thevalues, objectives, powers, decision-makingprocedures and institutions of the EU, andalso set out the basic rights of citizens.In every action of the EU, social justice andenvironmental factors must be regarded asover-riding purely economic objectives.We oppose the militarisation of the EU.• We oppose UK adoption of the Europeansingle currency, the euro.

GazaGreen Party Leader Caroline Lucas has spoken out against Israel’s longstanding campaignof ‘collective punishment’ against the people of Gaza, which cuts off the flow of fuel,commercial and humanitarian supplies, profoundly affects the region’s water and sanitationsystem, and is responsible for the suffering of over 860,000 vulnerable people.The EU’s Association Agreement with Israel is expressly dependent on both sides respectingbasic human rights. Despite persistent breaches, these clauses have never been invoked.Caroline says ‘Under these circumstances, the EU’s Association Agreement with Israel mustbe immediately suspended. Suspending the trade agreement and attaching the necessaryconditions to any future trade policy with Israel would allow the EU an opportunity to playa significant role in bringing peace and stability to the Middle East.’

Terrorism and the causes of terrorismThe Green Party condemns the indiscriminate use of violence to achieve political ends,and especially the targeting of civilians. We believe that the normal processes of criminalinvestigation and law should be used against the perpetrators of such attacks.Terrorist attacks in the UK are linked to our invasions of Iraq and Afghanistan, and we believethat part of the ultimate solution lies in a just overall settlement in the Middle East. We believethat the overwhelming majority of UK Muslims oppose such attacks, and we condemn thescapegoating of the Muslim community. We oppose the way the Government has used theattacks to introduce ever more draconian measures that undermine all our civil liberties,and would end the use of control orders, restrict pre-charge detention of terrorist suspectsto 7 days and end the policy of ‘Deportation with Assurances’ (which can result in torture).

A positive role in EuropeA fundamental principle of Green politics is that decisions should be taken at the lowestpracticable level: sometimes things dealt with at national level might better be decidedregionally or more locally. So why bother with the European Union at all?Greens are internationalists; we want to foster solidarity between peoples, and we believeco-operation builds peace, as it has done in Europe. Our geography means that we are partof Europe. We believe in Europe, but not in a European superstate.Our vision for Europe seeks to replace the unsustainable economics of free trade and growthwith the alternative of local self-reliance. We want to foster co-operation on issues of commoninterest, not establish international institutions for their own sake. Accordingly we are criticalof many of the objectives built in to the EU treaties, of the EU institutions and how they work,and of many particular EU policies. We believe many things done and decided in Europemight better be done by member states or by regions or localities. So while we are membersof the EU we will work for its fundamental reform.However there are matters – safeguarding basic rights, peace and security achieved throughmutual understanding, environmental protection, the spread of culture and ideas, regulationof the financial system – where we agree that EU action is appropriate. While the EU hascontrol over trade, we accept that in practice the way to affect these matters is to call forEU action – so we call, for example, for an EU ban on genetically modified (GM) foodsbecause in current circumstances that is the best way to achieve a ban in the UK.And there are other matters – for example, welfare policy – where although member statesretain basic control, the Open Method of Coordination between member states allows fora useful measure of discussion and co-ordination on matters of mutual interest.

