Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040054.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


The Daily Mirror: A Newspaper of Criminals
March 24, 2010

city-slickersThe Daily Mirror newspaper has the dubious distinction of being the only newspaper in British history to have actually swindled its own readers through the manipulation of share prices  which resulted in their journalists being jailed.

The astonishing thievery took place a few years ago when Mirror journalists James Hipwell and Anil Bhoyrul wrote the City Clickers column in that newspaper.

The column was supposed to tip off readers about up-and-coming shares on the stock market. Mirror readers were advised to invest their savings in the companies recommended by those two hacks.

The resulting demand for these shares in those companies drove their price upwards. This created a healthy profit for those who already owned shares in the named companies  who then took advantage of the buying frenzy to sell them.

What these poor readers did not know was that Mirror staff  including that newspapers then editor, Piers Morgan  had, prior to the publication of the supposed hot tip report, purchased large quantities of the shares in question.

As Mirror readers piled into what they believed to be a bargain, the crooks at that newspaper were then able to sell their recently acquired share holdings at a significant profit.

Inevitably, gullible Mirror readers, who paid above the odds for their shares, lost their money as the share price quickly fell back to its original and normal level.

Mirror journalists Hipwell and Bhoyrul were finally convicted of conspiracy to breach the Financial Services Act in 2005.

The crook Mirror journalist Hipwell was sentenced to six months in prison in February 2006, while his fellow Mirror crook Bhoyrul, who pleaded guilty, was sentenced to 18 months community service.

Not surprisingly, the shares were all purchased in Labour supporter Alan Sugars Viglen technology firm.

* The Daily Mirror has a long history of lying, swindling, cheating and thieving. In 1991, now deceased proprietor of the Mirror Group, Robert Maxwell, stole 400 million from his companys 32,000 pension scheme members, plunging most of them into dire poverty overnight.

Posted in National News | Comments (84)

