Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_060085.txt

Press Release from Party: Con

News story
Making the banks work for the people
Wednesday, April 28 2010
George Osborne

The Conservatives have set out their plans to make the banking system more sustainable and more responsible so that the banks work for the people instead of the people bailing out the banks.

Shadow Chancellor George Osborne launched Change for the better in Financial Services.

"Our objective is very clear", he said. "A successful and competitive banking industry that works for the people instead of being bailed out by the people".

"So dealing with our debts, reforming our banking sector, creating a more competitive tax system, building tomorrows infrastructure: this is our plan for the British economy."

Click here to read George's speech in full. The document can be downloaded here or read in the document viewer below.

It explains how within weeks of the election a Conservative Government will launch the most radical overhaul for a generation in the way that banks are regulated and policed, in order to support the economy and protect consumers:

    We will take action in our first Budget within 50 days of the election to get credit flowing to businesses with government guarantees, building on our proposals for a National Loan Guarantee Scheme.
    Within months we will take the first steps towards sweeping away Gordon Browns failed system of regulation and putting the Bank of England back in charge by creating a new body  the Financial Policy Committee  to monitor credit conditions and the growth of debt in the economy.
    We will start immediately on the design of a new bank levy, with the aim of introducing it within a year of the election.
    The bank levy will help to bring down remuneration across the banking sector. We will also empower the Bank of England to crack down on risky bonus structures.
    Unlike Labour we will push for international agreement at the G20 and other forums to separate the riskiest investment banking activities like large scale proprietary trading from retail banking.
    We will start work on the creation of a tough new Economic Crime Agency to crack down on white collar crime and sweep away the confused alphabet soup of agencies that are currently responsible for tackling serious economic crime.
    We will start work on the creation of a new Consumer Protection Agency to take over the roles of the Financial Services Authority and the Office of Fair Trading when it comes to protecting consumers of financial products.
    Within a year we will set up a free financial advice service and a free annual financial health check, to help families get their finances on track.

Go to news

    Subscribe
    Print



