Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228010016.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

Conserving Energy

Withoutout an effective energy policy, government canot have an effective environmental policy. Britain's national energy strategy must be set within an overall European framework, with the aim of reducing pollution, improving energy efficiency and boosting the use of renewables.

We will

    Support a Community-wide Energy Tax on all energy sources. This will be related to levels of carbon dioxide emitted and will provide a strong incentive for saving energy and investing in cleaner sources. Extra revenue raised through the tax will be fed back into the economy by reducing other taxes such as VAT and by protecting those least able to adapt to the higher price of energy.
    Invest in energy conservation and efficiency. We will set new energy efficiency standards for homes, offices and factories, and for products such as light bulbs, fridges and cookiers. We will give grants for home insulation and the installation of solar panels, and introduce energy audits of buildings. We will encourage combined heat and power and district heating schemes.
    Double government spending on renewable energy research. We will establish a Renewable Energy Office to promote research, development, and application, in particular of wave power, hot rocks geothermal energy, passive solar design of buildings, small-scale hydropower schemes and wind energy. We will complete the study on the construction of a Severn Barrage.
    Start to phase out nuclear fission power stations, which are prohibitively expensive and potentially hazardous. We aim to complete the phase-out at the latest by the year 2020 (and earlier if feasible), and we will not proceed further with the construction of the Sizewell B PWR. We will continue nuclear research, but at a lower cost. Reprocessing spent nuclear fuel rods increases the volume of waste and should be undertaken only when necessary for safety reasons.

