Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228020013.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

The Labour Party Manifesto 2010A new politics: renewing our democracy and rebuilding trust

Democratic reform

The challenge for Britain

To forge a new constitutional and political settlementin Britain so that we restore trust in politics, and ourpolitical institutions are properly held to account bythe people. The Tories oppose any real reform of thepolitical system that has let the public down. Theirpolicies would result in a postcode lottery based on‘free-for-all’ localism rather than genuine empowermentand a future fair for all.The next stage of national renewal• Referenda, held on the same day, for moving to theAlternative Vote for elections to the House of Commonsand to a democratic and accountable Second Chamber.• Improved citizenship education for young peoplefollowed by a free vote in Parliament on reducing thevoting age to 16.• Legislation to ensure Parliaments sit for a fixed termand an All Party Commission to chart a course to aWritten Constitution.• A statutory register of lobbyists, with MPs bannedfrom working for lobbying companies and required toseek approval for paid outside appointments.• Stronger local government, with increased localdemocratic scrutiny over all local public services.

We face a deep crisis oftrust in politics following theparliamentary expenses scandal.Faith in our political institutionswas seriously eroded by theabuses of the expenses system.Only radical change can beginto renew our democracy.

Cleaning up politics
We acted swiftly to cleanup politics by creating anIndependent ParliamentaryStandards Authority (IPSA) toset pay and pensions for MPs,as well as their allowances. Andwe will take further measuresto restore trust in our politics.MPs who are found responsiblefor financial misconduct willbe subject to a right of recall ifParliament itself has failed toact against them. The Houseof Lords and the new SecondChamber will be broughtunder the aegis of IPSA.We will create a StatutoryRegister of Lobbyists to ensurecomplete transparency in theiractivities. We will ban MPs fromworking for generic lobbyingcompanies and require thosewho want to take up paidoutside appointments to seekapproval from an independentbody to avoid jobs that conflictwith their responsibilities to thepublic.But this is only the start.People want a greater say inhow the country is governedand for politicians to be moreaccountable to those they serve.So while we are proud of ourrecord of devolving power andreforming the constitution, webelieve that further and moreradical reform is imperative ifwe are to renew our democraticpublic life. Britain needs a newconstitutional and politicalsettlement for a new era.A new politicsTo begin the task of buildinga new politics, we will letthe British people decide onwhether to make Parliament
more democratic andaccountable in referendaon reform of the House ofCommons and House of Lords,to be held on the same day, byOctober 2011.To ensure that every MP issupported by the majority oftheir constituents voting ateach election, we will hold areferendum on introducing theAlternative Vote for elections tothe House of Commons.We will ensure that thehereditary principle is removedfrom the House of Lords.Further democratic reform tocreate a fully elected SecondChamber will then be achievedin stages. At the end of the nextParliament one third of theHouse of Lords will be elected;a further one third of memberswill be elected at the generalelection after that. Until thefinal stage, the representation ofall groups should be maintainedin equal proportions to now.We will consult widely on theseproposals, and on an open-listproportional representationelectoral system for the SecondChamber, before putting themto the people in a referendum.To further strengthen ourdemocracy and renew ourconstitution, we will legislate forFixed Term Parliaments andset up an All Party Commission
to chart a course to a WrittenConstitution. We are proud tohave brought in the HumanRights Act, enabling Britishcitizens to take action in Britishcourts rather than having towait years to seek redress inStrasbourg. We will not repealor resile from it.Our society rightly demandsrespect from young people. Atthe same time, society shouldrespect young people’s viewsand aspirations. The successof elections for local YouthMayors and the UK YouthParliament strengthens thecase for reducing the votingage to 16, a change to whichLabour is committed. However,we believe that prior to thishappening, we need further toimprove citizenship educationin schools so that young peopleare better prepared for theirdemocratic responsibilities; areport will be commissionedon how best to achieve this sothat we can raise standardsin citizenship education,before providing a free votein Parliament on reducing thevoting age to 16, for which wewill make government timeavailable.Stronger accountabilityA new politics also meansstrengthening the power ofParliament to hold the executiveto account. We have supportedchanges to how Parliamentfunctions in order to strengthenSelect Committees and to give astronger voice to backbenchers.The public will be given a newright to petition the House ofCommons to trigger debateson issues of significant publicconcern. Parliament must betterreflect the diversity of modernBritain. Labour already has ahigher proportion of femaleand black and ethnic minorityMPs than any other party. Wewill take forward the proposalsof the recent Speaker’sConference so that the Houseof Commons properly reflectsthe diversity of modern Britain.We strongly support measuresthat improve the transparencyof parliamentary institutionsand government, and wantto see this principle extendedthroughout public life. Toencourage freedom of speechand access to information,we will bring forward newlegislation on libel to protectthe right of defendants to speakfreely.The cost of politics to thetaxpayer must be minimised,but we reject using this as
an excuse to gerrymanderconstituency boundaries in theinterests of one political party.We will establish a non-partisanParliamentary BoundariesReview to examine the rulesfor constructing parliamentaryconstituencies. We havealready legislated to enable theindividual registration of voters.We will now act, legislatingfurther if necessary, to end theunacceptable situation wherethree million eligible voterscannot vote because they arenot registered to do so.We believe that the fundingof political parties must bereformed if the public is toregain trust in politics. Ourstarting point should be theHayden Phillips proposalsof 2008. We will seek toreopen discussions on partyfundingreform, with a clearunderstanding that any changesshould only be made on thebasis of cross-party agreementand widespread public support.Devolving powerThe new politics also meansradical change to local publicservices. Our goal is for muchgreater local flexibility andresponsiveness, so that servicesare shaped around the personalneeds of citizens, not the silosof government departments.Greater accountability –with public services builtaround users, scrutinisedby democratically electedlocal councils, and with clearrights of redress for citizens– will strengthen support forcollectively provided services,while driving efficiency andeffectiveness in expenditure.Local government and itspartners in public servicesare already pooling budgetsacross localities. Our radicalTotal Place agenda will takethis further, giving local areasadditional freedom to achievebetter services and moresavings, cutting bureaucracyand management costs, whileplacing a greater on earlyintervention. Ring-fencedbudgets, central targets andindicators will be cut back.Local government is at theforefront of tackling the majorchallenges our society faces,from climate change to ageing.Increasingly, councils are themotors of economic growthand regeneration, particularlyin our great cities. We willgive local government newpowers to lead in the provisionand financing of social andaffordable housing, tackleclimate change and work withthe NHS in our new NationalCare Service.These reforms provide thefoundations for fundamentalchange. In contrast to ‘no frills’councils that charge twice for allbut the most basic services, webelieve that local governmentmust further empower residentsto hold it to account and deliverbetter, more personalisedservices. Alongside enhancedscrutiny powers for councillors,we are introducing petitioningpowers for local residents todemand action, and extendingneighbourhood agreementswhere citizens set out thestandards of services theyexpect locally.We will also extend the powersavailable to our major cityregions,building upon thepioneering arrangements inGreater Manchester, Leedsand Birmingham. Cityregionswill be able to gainadditional powers to improvetransport, skills and economicdevelopment and acquiregreater borrowing flexibility.Where new city-regionauthorities are created, we willgive residents the opportunity totrigger a referendum for directlyelecting a Mayor, with Londonstylepowers. More townsshould be encouraged to applyfor city status and have thechance to acquire it in futurecompetitions.
Our towns and cities needmodern, sustainable transportinfrastructure. We will supporttram schemes into the majorcities, including upgrades tothe Manchester, Nottingham,Birmingham and Tyne & Wearlight-rail systems, a moderntrolley bus in Leeds, and moreOyster-style electronic ticketingpromoting cheap and easyinterchange between publictransport in cities.We recognise that buses area lifeline, having doubledinvestment since 1997. We willprovide punctuality data on allbus routes so passengers canhold services to account. Wewant greater use of Londonstylepowers to regulate busroutes where local bus servicesare not serving communitieswell, and we will work with theCompetition Commission toensure that the bus companiesdo not make excess profits atthe expense of passengers.We have increased fundingfor local government by 45per cent in real terms since1997. Through tough cappingpowers and efficiencies, thisyear we have seen the lowestCouncil Tax rises on recordand we expect them to staylow. Excessive rises will becapped. We will not hold aCouncil Tax revaluation inthe next Parliament and wewill establish a cross-partycommission to review the futureof local government finance toensure it is meeting our goalsof accountability, equity andefficiency across the country.Public services in thedigital ageCitizens expect their publicservices to be transparent,interactive and easily accessible.We will open up government,embedding access toinformation and data into thevery fabric of public services.Citizens should be able tocompare local services, demandimprovements, choose betweenproviders, and hold governmentto account.We have led the world withthe creation of data.gov.uk,putting over 3,000 governmentdatasets online. Entrepreneursand developers have usedthese datasets to unleashsocial innovation, creatingapplications and websites forcitizens from local crime mapsto new guides to help findgood care homes or GPs. Wewill now publish a DomesdayBook of all non-personaldatasets held by governmentand its agencies, with a defaultassumption that these willbe made public. We willexplore how to give citizensdirect access to the data heldon them by public agencies,so that people can use andcontrol their own personaldata in their interaction withservice providers and the widercommunity.Opening up government –central and local – in this wayoffers huge potential for Britain.We can use new technologiesto give people a say on policymaking;enable citizens to carryout more of their dealings withgovernment online; and savemoney for taxpayers as weswitch services over to digitalonlydelivery.Digital government alsodemands digital inclusion. Sowe will build on our networkof UK Online centres andpublic libraries to spread freeinternet access points within thecommunity, and develop newincentives for users to switch toonline services.Protecting the UK andsupporting the UnionDevolution has strengthenedthe UK, preserving theunion on the basis of a fairerpartnership. The UK is strongenough and flexible enough todevolve power while retainingthe benefits of staying together.The Scottish Parliament andthe Welsh Assembly have put
more power in the hands oflocal people. All the evidenceis that devolution works, andis popular. We will implementthe recommendations ofthe Calman Commission,including giving the ScottishParliament additional taxraisingpowers, and seek waysto build consensus behind thesechanges.In Wales, we will work with theWelsh Assembly Governmenton a referendum to enhancethe powers to make lawsaffecting Wales in Wales;and to ensure that Walesis not disproportionatelydisadvantaged by theapplication of the centralgovernment funding formula.For the first time, NorthernIreland can look forward to astable and prosperous futureas a result of the Good Friday,St Andrews and HillsboroughAgreements. Supported byunprecedented public funding,we will continue to invest inthe institutions of devolution,so that the Unionist andRepublican traditions can worktogether for all the people ofNorthern Ireland.Our constitutional monarchyis the source of deep pride andstrength for our country. Webelieve that there is a case forreform of the laws concerningmarriage to Roman Catholicsand the primacy of malemembers of the Royal family.However, any reform wouldneed the agreement of all theCommonwealth countriesof which the Queen is theSovereign.

