Greens Launch Boy Band Election Video

8 April 2015

 

* Green Party breaks the mould with provocative spoof party election broadcast

* The politics of the future does not have to look like the politics of the past

* 'The only wasted vote is a vote you don’t believe in'

The Green Party, the only party committed to delivering real change for the common good and bringing an end to our tired business-as-usual politics, has released ‘Change the Tune’, a provocative election broadcast designed to shake up British politics.

The spoof boy band music video gives voice to the Green Party as the only true alternative to the Establishment parties who offer more of the same the same stale politics. 

In the daring spoof, comedians playing Prime Minister David Cameron, Deputy Prime Minster Nick Clegg, Leader of the Opposition Ed Miliband and UKIP Leader Nigel Farage, form one-time boyband, Coalition. The quartet sing in harmony about their shared love of austerity and fondness for fracking.

Greens believe politics is something you should do rather than have done to you and are determined to deliver a peaceful political revolution at the ballot boxes on May 7th 2015. The video closes with the messages “All over the country, people are standing up to change the tune. Voting true, not tactical.” And “We believe in the people controlling politics, not the other way round.”

Natalie Bennett, Leader of the Green Party of England and Wales, said:

“For many years the Establishment parties have been singing from the same hymn sheet.

“The Westminster consensus – which sees all other parties sign up to austerity economics, privatisation of our public services and inaction on climate change – is coming to an end. The Green Party is offering a real alternative to business-as-usual politics.

“We want an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top. That means bringing in a Living Wage of £10 an hour by 2020 and fair taxes on rich individuals and Britain’s biggest corporations.

“Voting Green on May 7th is a chance for people to play their part in breaking open the political harmony of the Establishment parties.”

The film was directed by Johnny Hopkins via ACNE productions, on behalf of Creature of London who created the film, their second film for the Green Party, following a satirical broadcast in 2014 ahead of the European Elections.

“The Greens are the progressive alternative voice we need in politics. With this in mind we’ve created a broadcast that we hope goes some way to making that voice louder”, commented Stu Outhwaite, Creative Partner at Creature of London.

The film will first be broadcast at 17.55 on BBC2 Thursday 9th April.

ends
- See more at: https://www.greenparty.org.uk/news/2015/04/08/greens-launch-boy-band-election-video/#sthash.5cZVcLcT.dpuf