Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030021.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

Championing children's education
Sat, 20/03/2010 - 14:24

A radical scheme will see young people from four schools in the Highlands and Islands given opportunities to choose a creative learning experience in science and technology.

The Scottish Government is providing 40,000 for the idiscover programme, run by NESTA  the National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts. A one year pilot will begin in August and provide around 225 S2 pupils with 200 of credits to spend each term on a range of experiences, such as working with real businesses to solve challenges, or design new products. The focus will be on acquiring the skills essential for innovation, such as creativity, self-belief and leadership.

Michael Russell, Cabinet Secretary for Education and Lifelong Learning, said:

We need to ensure that Scotlands young people are equipped for life in a fast-paced, technologically advanced world. Thats why were bringing a new approach through Curriculum for Excellence, with a focus on delivering the knowledge and skills needed in the 21st Century.

The idiscover pilot will give these young people in the Highlands and Islands excellent insights in the science, technology, engineering and creative industries. This programme will put more choice and ownership of learning right in the hands of young people themselves. They will be empowered through choosing an experience in an area that will excite them and truly engage them in learning.  

We want to make sure all young people  rich or poor, urban or rural - have access to the kind of educational experiences that bring lessons to life, which is just what this initiative is all about.

Im convinced that the best way to improve Scottish education is to enable diversity in delivery and not have a one-dimensional, inflexible system. I look forward to seeing the results of this pilot scheme and to how it may inform us in taking forward a more dynamic and varied educational offering for our young people.

Jonathan Kestenbaum, NESTAs Chief Executive commented:

Traditional schooling sometimes doesnt connect young people with the realities of the future world of work which will be dependent on a highly skilled and nimble workforce.  idiscover will redefine how our education curriculum prepares young people for the future and we welcome the assistance of the Scottish Government as we trial this programme in Scotland.

William Roe, chair of Highlands and Islands Enterprise (HIE) said:

"Enabling young people to explore knowledge-rich areas of learning on their own terms is a great way of matching educational provision with the pace of innovation in the workplace. I am delighted that HIE is contributing to this pilot and look forward to hearing of the experiences of participating pupils and of the ambition that the iDiscover experience instils in them."

ENDS

Notes:

The pilot will take place at Gairloch High School, Portree High School, Plockton High School and Ullapool High School.

The Scottish Governments contribution to the idiscover programme will enable young people to choose a learning experience in each term of the school year. idiscover in Scotland is also supported by Highlands and Islands Enterprise and the Highland Council Education Service and Learning Teaching Scotland.

The idiscover programme is already in operation in London and Manchester, where experiences include: learning about aerodynamics to build rockets, using simulated touch technology and applying it to veterinary procedures, and the technology and business behind theatre productions.  NESTA will deliver similar experiences for young people through the pilot in the Highlands and Islands.  Using an online system, pupils will decide which learning experiences would be of value to them, what career opportunities may emerge in the future, and the wider attributes that they will gain from the experience.   

NESTAs mission is to support innovation to drive economic recovery and solve some of the UKs major social challenges. NESTA will evaluate the pilot and, if successful, the programme may be rolled out more widely.
Filed under:

    education
    SNP Conference
    Holyrood


