Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228020010.txt

Party Manifesto: Labour (UK) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Labour?s number one priority.

The proposals and statistics in this chapter refer to England; reform programmes for Scotland and Wales are detailed in the Scottish and Welsh manifestos.
Nursery places available for all three-year-olds by 2004 Getting a head start... every child needs good IT skills Improved provision for gifted children as Labour nurtures special talents conditions of the staff employed in these schemes. We will seek ways in which, within the framework of PFI management, support staff could remain part of the NHS team.
Improving health.

Our job is not just to improve the nation?s health service. It is to improve the nation?s health.
Deaths from cancer and heart disease are too high. There has been a growing health gap between rich and poor. Beyond other commitments to combat child poverty and poor housing, we will tackle the long-standing causes of ill-health and health inequality by:
? making the fight against cancer, heart disease and stroke the top priority for investment and reform, with earmarked extra funding of F1 billion by 2004. The number of cardiologists will increase by around half and cancer specialists by nearly a third by 2005 compared to 1999- 2000. Waiting times for cancer treatment will be cut. Our ambition is to prevent 300,000 avoidable deaths over the next decade
? tough targets to close the health gap to cut deaths in poorer communities and among poorer children improving mental health services, and a new emphasis on prevention, with more screening services including for conditions like sickle cell disease, cystic fibrosis and newborn hearing problems
? offering the world?s best smoking cessation services to help the seven in ten smokers who say they want to give up
? giving children aged four to six in nursery and primary schools a free piece of fruit every school day ? the biggest boost to child nutrition since free school milk was introduced in 1946.
We remain committed to our bill ? blocked by the Tories ? to ban tobacco advertising and sponsorship.

Reforming the NHS.

The NHS has to earn the confidence of each new generation. It has to change the way it works if it is to meet today?s challenges and provide fast and modern services. With Labour, by 2004 teachers, particularly in high-cost areas and schools facing exceptional challenges
? create new routes into teaching, including ?train-to-teach? courses accredited as part of undergraduate degrees and a stronger training mission for outstanding schools
? further improve in-service training opportunities for teachers
? develop school achievement awards that reward staff in 7,000 fast-improving schools a year
? subsidise new PCs for teachers so that they have direct access to the latest technology.

Higher education ? a world leader.

Higher education brings on average 20 per cent higher earnings and a 50 per cent lower chance of unemployment. It is time for an historic commitment to open higher education to half of all young people before they are 30, combined with increased investment to maintain academic standards.
In 1997 we inherited a system where the number of qualified people able to go to university was capped. Today, the numbers are rising and universities have the funds to expand, with new two-year foundation degrees to offer students the option of a vocationally relevant, high-quality qualification as a way into skilled work or further study. Over the next three years, we will continue to expand student numbers, taking us towards our 50 per cent target.
We will maintain university entry standards while intensifying efforts to extend the huge advantages that a university education confers to able young people from all backgrounds.

University summer schools, master classes and mentoring support will be offered to potential students from disadvantaged areas through a new Excellence Challenge programme, backed up by F190 million of funding.
We will not introduce ?top-up? fees and have legislated to prevent them. Since 1997 we have increased university funding by more than a billion pounds a year over the Parliament ? and invested considerably more in research. Our new system of university finance ensures that 50 per cent of students pay no tuition fees at all, that no parents pay more than under the old system, and that students pay back loans progressively when they are earning. We will ensure that the funding system continues to promote access and excellence.
We will strengthen research and teaching excellence. It is vital that our world-leading universities are able to compete with the best internationally. We will also support world-class research and the development of public-private partnerships. We are determined to ensure that our universities have the freedom and incentives to meet our ambitions for them.
Reforms to the inspection system for teaching will slash red tape for higher performing departments.
For over 50 years the NHS has been part and parcel of what it means to be British. If you fall ill, the NHS is there. Its foundations ? tax-based funding and care according to need ? remain as valid today as ever.
The NHS employs one million dedicated people.
But it needs far-reaching reform to redesign its services around the needs of patients. Labour?s ten-year NHS Plan is our strategy for ensuring fast, convenient, high-quality care in all parts of the country. We will implement it through the next Parliament and, if elected, beyond. Reform will be driven through primary care trusts (PCTs) as power and resources are decentralised to frontline staff.
In 1997, waiting lists were at record levels and rising, hospital building had ground to a halt, and the number of nurses working in the NHS had fallen. Today, waiting lists are down by over 100,000 and waiting times are falling. There are 17,000 more nurses, over 6,500 more doctors, and over 9,000 more therapists, scientists and technicians working for patients. The biggest-ever hospital building programme is under way. NHS Direct, the 24-hour nurse helpline, is available across the country. Eye tests for people who are 60 and over are now free.
But there is a lot more to do. We are committed to investment and reform.
With Labour, in just four years the NHS will have grown by a third. Spending on the health service is now rising by an average of over six per cent a year in real terms ? the biggest sustained increase in its history and double that under the Conservatives. Provided that as a country we maintain economic stability, we will, if elected, be able to sustain significant funding increases throughout the next Parliament. So over time we will bring UK health spending up to the EU average.

The fundamentals of care.

That money will help us get the basics right.
By 2005 there will be 10,000 more doctors and 20,000 more nurses, with ward sisters in charge of ward budgets. Matrons will make sure that hospital food is good and wards are clean, with power to stop payments to contractors who fail to keep hospitals up to scratch.
?Nightingale? wards for older people and mixed sex wards will be abolished, and mental health wards will be modernised. There will be 7,000 extra beds in hospitals and in intermediate care. And we will build 100 new hospital developments by 2010 and 500 one-stop primary care centres, with over 3,000 GP premises modernised by 2004. We are investing an extra F7 billion of capital investment into the health service. We have said that Private Finance Initiative (PFI) should not be delivered at the expense of the pay and Health Quality services from a growing NHS Above: More flexible working hours for NHS staff Left: A bright future for frontline staff and patients view. We will then enable Parliament to reach a conclusion on this issue. If the issue continues to be blocked we will look at how the disagreement can be resolved.We have no intention whatsoever of placing restrictions on the sports of angling and shooting.

Arts.

Thirty million people enjoy arts activities each year. The arts are crucial to national life, with a huge importance for the creative and tourist industries. Yet the Conservatives introduced charges for our national museums and galleries, cut the arts budget, and reduced support for arts education. Since 1997 that has changed. National museums are already free for children and pensioners. Labour is committed to reform the VAT system to ensure they will be made free for everyone from December. By 2004, arts funding will be 60 per cent above its 1997 level in real terms. An extra F25 million a year will go to regional theatre, increasing the number and quality of productions for audiences in England. We have invested in our orchestras, and put an extra F10 million a year into developing our regional museums and galleries. We have maintained our commitment to the nation?s heritage and to its historic buildings, and we will continue our drive to put architectural quality at the heart of the design of new public buildings.
Education is the bedrock of an artistic society.
We are once again giving children the opportunity to learn music, and we will ensure the opportunity is available to all. New creative partnerships ? linking schools with artists and arts organisations particularly in disadvantaged areas ? will offer children the chance to develop artistic and creative talents. We will build on the pilot projects. We have made the largest-ever investment in computerising libraries; all will be on-line by 2002, with guaranteed standards to meet users? needs.
From 2002, Culture On-line will offer children and adults alike tailored access to our national collections and cultural activity over the internet. We 23 22 Olympics and Paralympics thrilled everyone.
Labour is committed to a radical extension of sporting opportunities and facilities. Sport is a good health policy, a good crime reduction policy, a good way of building communities.
We pledge a sports entitlement for all children, giving them access to at least two hours a week of sport in or after school. Thanks to our ban on the enforced sale of playing fields and a commitment of nearly F1 billion to new sports facilities and 1,000 school sports co-ordinators, all children will be offered coaching and competitive games.
Children with talent need more investment: we have pledged to fund 200 specialist sports colleges. We will maintain the elite funding we put in place for individual athletics, with a first-class athletics stadium for the World Athletics Championships in 2005 and a new stadium in Manchester for next year?s 
Commonwealth Games.

We are committed to sell the Tote to a racing trust to allow it to compete commercially, with all long-term profits invested in the sport. We are committed to finding ways to support the amateur sports clubs to which 5.6 million people now belong.
The House of Commons elected in 1997 made clear its wish to ban fox-hunting. The House of Lords took a different view (and reform has been blocked). Such issues are rightly a matter for a free vote and we will give the new House of Commons an early opportunity to express its will create new specialist arts schools and city academies to offer specialist education to the most talented young people.
Public money devoted to the arts should be spent on excellent art, not bureaucracy. The Arts Council is undergoing substantial reform ? creating a simpler structure which gives more power to the regions, cuts bureaucratic costs further, and which can deliver a better service to individual artists and arts organisations. We will ensure that our arts funding system backs excellence, giving artists and arts organisations the long-term stability they need to become world leaders.

Creative industries.

The creative industries are a vital engine of our economy, providing jobs for over one million people. The National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts (NESTA) has been set up to back our most talented young people.
Creative entrepreneurs need seed funding, cheap accommodation near other similar companies, and advice on how to develop their talent into a business. To meet those needs, we now plan to provide start-up advice, services and funding for new businesses.
Venture capital will be available through RDAs, and a creative industries champion will be appointed in every Business Link.

Lottery.

Under the Conservatives, many communities missed out on their fair share of lottery money.
The number of grants to community groups has trebled with Labour. Yet there are still communities which have received a disproportionately small share of lottery funding. We will ensure a fairer deal for them.


