Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228020011.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

The Labour Party Manifesto 2010Creative Britain: active and flourishing communities

Communities and creative Britain

The challenge for Britain

To build on the renaissance that British sport, cultureand the arts have enjoyed in the last decade in thenew climate of financial restraint. The voluntary andcommunity sector has a new lease of life, but needs itspotential to be fully harnessed. The Tories have alwaysneglected the arts and sport, regarding them as an easytarget for cuts.The next stage of national renewal• A golden decade of sport with the 2012 Olympics as agreat national and world-wide celebration.• Registered Supporters Trusts enabled to buy stakes intheir club bringing mutualism to the heart of football.• Operational independence for major museums andgalleries, with more lottery funding returning to thearts, sport and culture after 2012.• Protection for the post offices and pubs on whichcommunity life depends.• The BBC’s independence upheld; and Britainequipped with a world-leading digital and broadbandinfrastructure.

The sporting, artistic andcultural life of Britain is richand diverse, internationallyrenowned, and as vital to ourquality of life as it is to ournational prosperity. Since1997, our creative industries,arts and sport have becomethe envy of the world. As the2012 Olympics draw near,we will make the most of ourplace in the world’s spotlight
to showcase Britain, gettingmore people playing sport andattracting more visitors to theUK.Culture and the arts are vital toa modern economy. But theystand for more than materialsuccess, reminding us thatsociety is not just a marketplace.Promoting well-being meanssustaining the communityinstitutions that we mostcherish, and protecting thoseareas of our public life thatembody the common good.2012: creating anOlympic generationHosting the 2012 Olympicsprovides a once-in-a-lifetimeopportunity to showcase ourcountry’s great sporting talent.The eyes of the world will beon us as Team GB inspiresenthusiasm and nationalpride. Our aim is to achieveoutstanding medal success atthe Olympics and Paralympics,with a talent developmentsystem striving for excellence,and successful British athletesspanning all disciplines andevents.The Games will deliver agolden legacy for futuregenerations, ushering in a newera of sporting excellence. TheOlympics are already inspiringa new generation of Britishvolunteers: over a quarter ofa million young people havesigned up to help run theGames.We will ensure that theOlympics are delivered on timeand on budget, to the higheststandards. Britain will be thefirst Olympic hosts to create aworld-class sports system, fromelite level to the grass roots. The
impact of the Olympics willbe felt throughout the country,helping to boost the UK touristindustry.
Sport for AllWe approach 2012 with aproud record. Investment insport has increased eightfold.We have begun a renaissance ofcompetitive sport in our schools,investing as never before in oursporting facilities. Taking part insport uncovers talent, improvesphysical fitness, and encouragesimportant social skills. We areproviding more resources togive every child the opportunityto do at least five hours’ sportper week. This will be providedthrough extended schools,community sports clubs and3,000 new Olympic-inspiredsports clubs. We will invest in anew national network of schoolsports coaches to increasethe quality and quantity ofcoaching in some of the mostdeprived areas.This will be backed by a PupilGuarantee ensuring that everypupil should have access toregular competitive sport alongwith coaching, a choice ofdifferent sports, and pathwaysto elite and club development.We will continue our investmentin free swimming for childrenand the over-60s. Peopleof all ages and abilities can
apply to join one of the tensof thousands of sports clubsreceiving public funding. Andthere are over half a millionmore adults taking part inregular sporting activity than adecade ago.Protecting the integrity ofprofessional sport is vital:we will toughen measuresto combat cheating and theuse of illegal substances insport. We will work withgoverning authorities toensure that professionalclubs are accountable totheir stakeholders, and runtransparently on soundfinancial principles, withgreater involvement oflocal communities andsupporter representation.Sports governing bodies willbe empowered to scrutinisetakeovers of clubs, ensuringthey are in the long-terminterests of the club and thesport. We will develop proposalsto enable registered SupportersTrusts to buy stakes in theirclub.The 2010s promise to be agolden decade for British sport:as well as the 2012 Olympics,we will host the 2013 RugbyLeague World Cup, the 2014Commonwealth Games, andthe 2015 Rugby Union WorldCup. We aim to bring moremajor international sportingcompetitions to Britain,beginning with our currentpartnership with the English FAto bring the 2018 World Cup toEngland.Arts, culture and museumsWe have made unprecedentedinvestment in Britain’s culturallife, widening access byintroducing free admission tomuseums and galleries. Everychild and young person shouldbe entitled to five hours of art,music and culture per week,through learning to play amusical instrument, visitinglocal museums and joining filmclubs, or taking part in localtheatre. Through CreativePartnerships we are ensuringthat young people in the mostdeprived parts of the countryare able to fulfil their artistictalents by working with localarts and cultural organisations.We have provided the firstnationwide programme of freetheatre to young people; nowwe will build on the successof the National Theatre’s£10 Season to work withtheatres and sponsors toprovide reduced-rate tickets fortheatrical productions aroundBritain. Our national culturallife and creative industries canprosper only by developingyoung artistic talent. CreativeBursaries will support the most
artistically gifted young peoplein their early professionalcareers.So that our cultural facilitiesremain world-class, charities,businesses and culturalorganisations must collaboratemore closely in the future. Wewill review how incentives forphilanthropic support canbe strengthened. Our majormuseums and galleries shouldbe operationally independent ofgovernment, so we will legislateto ensure their managerial andfinancial autonomy.We will maintain ourcommitment to free admissions,encouraging people of allages and a wide range ofbackgrounds to visit. Everychild will have lifetime librarymembership from birth.Britain is enriched by itsunique historical heritage.We will review the structuresthat oversee English Heritage,putting mutual principles atthe heart of its governance sothat people can have a directsay over the protection andmaintenance of Britain’s builthistorical legacy.We will give public institutionsnew rights to borrow works ofart from the national collection,so that more people can benefitfrom access to our nationalartistic heritage.
National Lottery funding ismore in tune with people’spriorities than ever. Wewill promote greater publicinvolvement in the way thatNational Lottery proceedsare spent on good causes. Aproportion of Lottery fundingis going to the Olympics. After2012, this proportion will returnto culture, heritage and sport.Improving your communityThe nature of the placesin which we live mattersenormously. We are happier,more engaged and better ableto enjoy family life where thereare safe and welcoming publicspaces, good local amenitiesand buildings in which we cantake pride.Britain’s towns and cities haveundergone a renaissance in thelast decade. Our great citieshave been rebuilt and revitalisedand dilapidated schools andhospitals replaced with modernbuildings. We will continueto promote excellence inarchitecture and design, helpingto foster civic pride and buildworld-class places in whichpeople want to live and work.We have introduced new designstandards for schools, to ensurethe very best architecture andbuilding design; we will extend
these to all new government-fundedbuilding programmes.Protecting community lifeStrong community life alsodepends on protecting theplaces in which people cometogether. To give families accessto good recreational facilities,we are investing £235 millionto create new or refurbishedplay spaces and adventureplaygrounds. We will protectthe Post Office network, so thatit can fulfil its historic role as atrusted institution serving thecommunity.The local pub and social clubare also hubs of communitylife. Too many pubs have closedthat could have been sustainedby local people. We will supportpubs that have a viable futurewith a new fund for communityownership in 2010-11. Councilsmust take full account of theimportance of pubs to the localcommunity when assessingproposals that change theiruse, and we will make it moredifficult to demolish pubs.Restrictive covenants applied bypub companies to property saleswill be curbed and flexibility forpubs to provide related servicespromoted, making it easierto have live entertainmentwithout a licence. A non-tieoption should be available forpub tenants; we will act if the
industry fails to make progresson this.To protect the character oftheir areas, local authoritiesnow have greater powers toreject applications for lapdancingclubs and we willgive councils new powers tooppose gambling licences ifthere are too many bettingshops operating in a high street.The ‘cleaner neighbourhoods’legislation will be used to clampdown on litter, fly-tipping andvandalism. We will extend theuse of participatory budgetingto give local people a strongersay. Community Land Trustsenable local people to purchaseand run local amenities andassets in their area such asyouth facilities, parks and openspaces. We will promote thetransfer of buildings and landto the ownership or controlof voluntary and communitygroups.Supporting socialenterpriseThe Social Investment Bankwill make additional capitalavailable to social enterpriseswith an initial endowment of£75 million funded by dormantaccounts alongside existingfunding streams. We willpromote the creation of moresocial enterprise hubs in everycommunity – helping more toget off the ground.We will extend the rightof public-sector workersto request that they deliverfrontline services through asocial enterprise. Public-sectorworkers in the NHS currentlyenjoy this right. We will extendthis to more public services,including social care, withgreater community involvementin their governance.The new mutualismThere is growing interestin co-operative and mutualorganisations that people trust,and that have the capacityto unleash creativity andinnovation, creating new jobsand services – particularly indisadvantaged neighbourhoodswhere traditional approacheshave failed in the past. Wewant to see more localorganisations run on cooperativeprinciples with anexpansion of CommunityInterest Companies and thirdsectormutual organisationsthat reinvest profits for thepublic good. We will promotethis through the Co-operativeParty, Business Link, enterpriseeducation and the RegionalDevelopment Agencies. To givemore people a stake in a highlyvalued national asset, BritishWaterways will be turned intoa mutually owned co-operative.We will promote the use ofcommunity shares that supportinvestment in football clubs,pubs, renewable energy andshops.A vibrant voluntary sectorBritain has among the highestlevels of voluntary membershipin the world. We stronglyvalue the independenceof the voluntary andcommunity sector, including itscampaigning role, and will actto maintain it. There will begreater support for third-sectororganisations in competing forpublic-sector contracts, ensuringthere is a level playing field withthe public and private sectors.We will consult on putting theCompact Commission – whichsets guidelines for effectivepartnership working betweengovernment and the third sectorin Britain – on a statutoryfooting, and ensure greatersupport for the Compact atlocal level.All young people should beactive and engaged in theircommunities, so that it becomesa normal part of growing upto undertake service in thecommunity. We are takingforward plans for a NationalYouth Community Service, withthe goal that all young peoplecontribute at least 50 hours to
their communities by the ageof 19, building on citizenshipeducation and communityengagement in schools.Faith is enormously importantto millions of people in Britain,shaping their values and theway they live. We respect theimportance of belief andwelcome the contribution thatpeople of faith make to ourcommunities and society morewidely. We will actively combatextremist groups who promotefear, hatred and violence on thebasis of faith or race.Britain’s creativeindustriesIn every nation and region ofBritain a wealth of creativetalent – in industries rangingfrom film to fashion, design andvideo games – has flourished,and creative industries nowaccount for ten per cent of thenational economy.The strength of Britain’s filmindustry is a source of pride.Through Labour’s film taxcredit we have ensured thatBritain – with its unique rangeof skills and facilities – is theright place to invest in filmproduction. So that films canbe enjoyed more widely too,we will maintain the film taxcredit and create a mergedBritish Film Institute and UKFilm Council to establish asingle body to promote filmproduction and film heritage.Subject to state aid clearance,we will introduce a tax relief forthe UK video games industry.We will support film festivalsaround the country, andestablish a new biennial Festivalof Britain, beginning in 2013,showcasing our major culturalachievements and young Britishtalent across all of our creativeindustries.The BBC is the most admiredand trusted broadcaster in theworld: respected internationallyfor its objectivity and its creativeexcellence, and here in Britainas a pillar of our cultural life.We support an independent andworld-class BBC at the heart ofa vibrant public broadcastingsystem. Our strong support forits editorial independence andthe licence fee that financesthe BBC’s programmes andactivities will continue. TheBBC Trust should fully involvethe public in decision-making.The licence-fee is guaranteedfor the ten-year Royal Charterthat took effect on 1 January2007.Channel 4 will continue asa public-service broadcasterproviding distinctivecompetition to the BBC,alongside ITV and Channel5. We are committed tomaintaining plurality inregional news provision. Wewill fund three regional newsprogramme pilots from thedigital switchover under-spendin the current licence-feeperiod.The digital revolution istransforming the world ofbroadcasting. We are workingwith the BBC and DigitalUK to ensure that TV’sdigital switch-over takes placesmoothly by 2012, providingfinancial support and helpingelderly people and the mostvulnerable households in theUK. To ensure we preservecompetition and protectchildren and consumers on theInternet, we will safeguard theindependence of Ofcom.We are extending broadbandaccess to every business andhome, ensuring universal accesswithin a decade to high-speedbroadband across the country.We will update the intellectualproperty framework that iscrucial to the creative industries– and take further action totackle online piracy.

