Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228060038.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

POLICE AND THE COMMUNITY

We Conservatives can be proud of our record in supporting the police. Since 1979 we have increased spending on the police by 74 per cent in real terms. Uniformed manpower has increased by 16,000 and civilian manpower by 12,000. We have launched a campaign to recruit 10,000 Special Constables.

Over the next few years we want to see a major reform which will help provide what the public wants and needs: a visible, local police presence.

We will be encouraging police forces to develop local Community Policing, to link the police more closely with the communities they protect. The Metropolitan Police will be reorganised on this basis by the spring of 1993. Two-thirds of English and Welsh forces are already preparing similar plans. Pilot schemes suggest they can add greatly to the citizen's sense of security and build support for the police.

Community Policing will involve local residents, listen to their views and engage their help in the fight against crime. It will mean:

    smaller police units with officers serving the same area for longer. That way, people can really get to know their local police officers;
    each police force devolving its management and operational control to local units, and streamlining its chain of command;
    getting police back on the beat, and in close contact with the neighbourhoods under their care. 

It will be supported by an extension of Neighbourhood Watch schemes, which are vital in deterring theft and burglaries.

Public confidence in the police is enhanced when people know what they can expect from their local police force, and when outsiders are let into the process of inspecting how they work. At least five police forces are already leading the way with charters setting out their targets.

    We are continuing to increase police numbers. There will be 1,000 extra police officers this year.
    We will continue to give the police the support and resources they need to carry out their duties effectively and efficiently.
    We will be seeking the nation-wide introduction of Community Policing.
    We will encourage civilianisation as a means of freeing police officers for operational duties.
    We will encourage the extension of Neighbourhood Watch to more residential areas.
    We will continue to increase the Special Constabulary, which has seen a rise in recruitment this year of 10 per cent.
    We want each police force to produce a charter telling local people, for example, how quickly the police will aim to respond to emergency calls.
    We will introduce lay inspectors with management experience into the police inspectorate. 

