Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228010020.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Tackling the Causes of Crime

We recognise that many of the most effective measures against crime are not the responsibility of the police, the prison system or the courts. Our policies in many other areas will have a significant impact on the causes of crime. We will:

    Invest in education to offer young people more opportunities.

    Encourage young people into constructive activity by increasing support for sport, recreation and the youth service.

    Encourage the use of Acceptable Behaviour Contracts (ABCs). These will help reduce anti-social behaviour in communities by young people, without resorting to blanket curfews or immediate use of heavy-handed court action through Anti-Social Behaviour Orders.

    Expand facilities to help drug and alcohol abusers. We will prioritise funds to aim for a maximum four-week waiting time after an abuser is referred for treatment.

    Replace the New Deal with a Flexible Guarantee of help for all jobseekers, administered through a combined Benefits and Jobs Agency.

    Help ensure that care leavers do not drift into crime by offering them support with housing, education and training.

    Establish a National Crime Reduction Agency to oversee and advise on the work of local Crime Reduction Partnerships and other crime reduction work undertaken by central government. This will ensure that those partnerships are effective at finding local solutions to local crime problems.

    Establish a Standing Royal Commission to tackle the range of problems currently associated with drugs. The approach of successive governments has demonstrably failed. An independent Royal Commission will take a fresh look at the issue of illegal drugs and ways to tackle problems in such areas as health and the huge profits of organised crime. The Commission will also be charged with recommending strategies to address misuse of legal drugs such as alcohol and tobacco, and other legal substances such as solvents.

Setting You Free

    Liberalise licensing laws. We will replace mandatory closing times for pubs with locally determined opening times.

    Make non-payment of TV Licences a civil matter rather than a criminal offence.

    Abandon plans to introduce a Public Defender Scheme which would limit the independence of defence advocates.

