Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228020007.txt

Party Manifesto: Labour (UK) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Leadership for the future.

Labour is committed to support our countryside and the people who live and work in it. We are committed to create a new department to lead renewal in rural areas ? a Department for Rural Affairs.
Independent and wide-ranging views are essential to the development of strategic and long-term policy. We will set up an independent commission to advise on how we create a sustainable, competitive and diverse farming and food sector within a thriving rural economy which advances environmental, health and animal welfare goals.

Coalfield communities.

Labour is committed to a ring-fenced F400 million package of help for Britain?s ex-mining communities. This will support local regeneration, including support for new businesses. We will ensure that compensation due is paid quickly.
We will also honour our commitment to ex-miners.
suffering industrial diseases. We have set aside F4 billion to compensate those men who suffered from lung disease and vibration white finger after working in Britain?s mining industry and the widows who nursed them.
Britain led the first industrial revolution. Other countries got ahead in the second industrial revolution.
Now our ambition is for Britain to succeed in the third industrial revolution ? enhancing knowledge, speeding up communication and developing the talents of all the British people.
Our commitment is to use the F1.2 billion rising to F1.7 billion a year now pledged to RDAs to promote business start-ups, strengthen links between business and universities, for example through university innovation centres and the establishment of a Centre for Manufacturing Excellence in every region to help firms develop.
They will develop venture capital funds to boost wealth-creating capacity.
The Conservatives are so obsessed with the market and so out of touch with what goes on beyond Westminster that they even want to scrap RDAs ? and with them the vital jobs, inward investment and prosperity that they bring.

Urban renewal.

Eighty per cent of people live in urban and innercity Britain. We are ambitious for Britain?s urban areas: we want to make them better places to live and better places to set up a business. The New Deal for Communities, worth F1.9 billion over three years, and the F900 million Neighbourhood Renewal Fund (see ?A modern welfare state?), as well as our reforms to local governance (see ?Strong and safe communities?) will drive forward progress.
Labour offers F1 billion of tax cuts over the next five years to increase capital investment in urban areas, for new businesses and for new housing. Labour will reform the planning system to speed up decision-making, promote the most efficient use of land, and strike the right balance of environmental protection, safer communities and economic growth. We have put urban renewal at the heart of the planning system and set a target of 60 per cent of new house building to be on brownfield land or provided through the conversion of existing buildings. Two Millennium Villages have set high standards in design. We will designate more in other parts of the country and continue to raise standards of urban design, with a quality mark to tackle cowboy builders.

Housing.

Lower interest rates enable more people to own their own homes. Labour will make it easier for people buying and selling homes through a new sellers? pack, through grants for low-income homeowners, and help for key workers in highcost areas. We will honour our commitment to tackle homelessness. We will continue to promote housing choice, with reforms to leasehold and commonhold law, a licensing scheme for houses in multiple occupation, and new powers for council tenants. We will develop a modern basis for land registration to make conveyancing faster and cheaper. We will also examine the ways in which tenants can be helped to gain an equity stake in the value of their home.
Labour is committed to reducing by one third the backlog of sub-standard housing by 2004, with all social housing brought up to a decent standard by 2010. We will seek to reduce the use of costly bed-and-breakfast accommodation.
We propose additional investment of F1.8 billion over the next three years. Some local authorities will continue to provide high-quality council housing. We are supporting the transfer of 200,000 dwellings per year, where tenants agree, to social landlords like housing associations, and new arms-length council housing companies. We will also help 10,000 key workers buy their own homes in high-cost areas to tackle recruitment problems.

Rural Britain.

The recent outbreak of foot and mouth disease has caused strain and distress in rural areas.
Labour?s priorities have been clear: to eradicate the disease as quickly and effectively as possible, to compensate those directly affected, and to protect the wider economy. As the number of new cases falls significantly, and the clean-up of infected areas gathers pace, we are committed to help the most affected regions with a recovery plan including advice on sustainable restocking, organic conversion, and early retirement and outgoer schemes. We will conduct a scientific review of how to prevent animal disease outbreaks from occurring in the future, and will introduce tough rules to back this up. But we must also learn some of the wider lessons.

Agriculture and fishing.

Since the Second World War the economy of rural areas has undergone massive change.
About two per cent of the national workforce are now employed in agriculture. But the industry is particularly important because of the links with food production, our landscape and our environment. Labour?s aim is to promote economic renewal with a sustainable future for farming, strengthened communities and sustainable land use.
Short-term pressures need to be met. Since the early 1990s, sectors of farming have been hard hit by BSE, the weakness of the Euro and falling world commodity prices. Labour has provided F1.35 billion in short-term relief for farmers, including aid for diversification, farm business advice, better marketing, small slaughterhouses and restructuring of the industry. We have minimised many regulatory burdens and improved the way food safety, environmental and animal health regulations are implemented.

But British agriculture will only thrive in the longer term through a further, radical reorientation of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), away from distorting Europe-wide production subsidies towards more national responsibility for domestic farming, environmental and rural development priorities.
CAP reform is now more possible; Labour?s engagement with the EU gives us the best chance of making it happen.
We have begun the process of change with our farming strategy and our seven-year, F3 billion Rural Development Plans for England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. Labour will expand this programme so farming can become more diverse and responsive to consumers, and produce in a way that sustains and improves the environment. We have already increased payments for organic conversion from F0.5 million to F18 million, and will increase them further.
We have set up an independent, open and consumer-focused Food Standards Agency to ensure that all food meets the highest standards.
We will argue for the extension of food labelling, to give consumers more choice. Genetically modified (GM) foods and crops have caused concern despite stringent safety checks. There should be high standards of safety ? regulation must be strict, to protect the environment and Urban renewal is at the heart of the planning systemow Labour makes you better off: an Employment Tax Credit Labour is committed to protecting Britain?s landscapes and wildlife Primary excellence... the big improvements already made in primary schools are to be extended to secondary education Our ten-year goals:
- 50 per cent of young people entering higher education, as we raise standards in secondary schools.
- Maximum waiting time of three months for any stage of treatment, as we become a healthier nation with fast, high-quality treatment free at the point of use.

Our next steps:
- Every secondary school with a distinct ethos, mission and centre of excellence
- Recruit an extra 10,000 teachers More power to frontline staff with budgets for ward sisters and consultants and 75 per cent of NHS spending controlled by 

