Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030064.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

Tory candidates lift lid on nest of vipers
Sun, 04/04/2010 - 14:18

The SNP has seized on further deep divisions within the Scottish Conservatives after a leading candidate likened senior members of her party to a "nest of vipers".

In a damning critique, Tory candidate Heather Macleod, revealed the "bitter and bloody" feud at the top of the Tories and said the party still needed to "understand why it is not electableit is becoming more reactionary, rather than learning about how to become more successful."

Ms MacLeods claims follow the leaking of a damaging letter penned by former Conservative candidate for Perth and North Perthshire, Douglas Taylor, which outlines his many frank concerns about the state of the current Tory party and its failure on key issues.

Commenting, SNP MP for Perth and North Perthshire, Pete Wishart said:

"It is behaviour like this that shows why at this election the SNP is saying to voters don't just elect a politician, elect a local champion.

"While the SNP focus on the peoples priorities, working hard to be a champion on voters concerns, the Tories are consumed by bitter internal backbiting and score settling shenanigans. It is no wonder David Camerons conservatives are going nowhere in Scotland.

"Heather Macleod and Douglas Taylor have done us all a favour by lifting the lid on the workings of their party. These devastating critiques are hugely damaging for the Tories local campaigns and painfully embarrassing for the party nationally."

Note:

1. Details of Heather Macleods critique can be found here:

http://www.heraldscotland.com/news/politics/tory-election-candidate-quits-over-party-s-nest-of-vipers-1.1018223

2. Former Conservative candidate Douglas Taylor sets out his views in a letter to fellow Conservatives leaked to the SNP. On the selection process Mr Taylor says:

"The candidate selection process in Scotland and the UK as a whole has been biased against experienced candidates"

"The loss of integrity in some of the internal procedures makes it very difficult for honest candidates to proceed on merit"

On the economy:

"The Conservative Party has lost a basic understanding of its own intellectual roots mean it is ill equipped to deal with the economic troubles ahead"

"I dont think that a Conservative or Labour government will make much difference either way."

Douglas Taylor then concludes:

"However, I am very clear in my own mind that the Conservative Party does not represent my ideals any longer..if I was new to politics now I would not join the Conservative Party."

Further quotes from Douglas Taylors letter.

In his letter Mr Taylor opens:

"The main reason why I am writing is because I want you to know that I have some serious concerns about the Conservative Party"

On Europe:

"I think that the Conservative Partys position is dishonest. That dishonesty will neither resolve our position within the EU satisfactorily, nor will it do any good for our relations with other countries."

On the Conservative makeover:

"This is why the Conservative Partys change is such a fundamental problem."

"If we judge the Conservative Party leadership now by what it does, rather than how speeches and sound bites are being crafted, it is quite clear that the Conservative Party has changed. The changes however have been to torpedo conservatism from within"

"Firstly, the Conservative Party has moved away from what I support and in many ways, in reality and beneath the gloss, is actively undermining a lot of what I believe in."

"It was the Conservative Party rather than me that was moving away from conservative ideals."

On political funding:

"The situation with the Scottish Conservative Party is also far from ideal. Rather than being a political party that relies on the grass roots it is instead increasingly reliant on a heavily funded Central Office. Therefore it is a party that relies on large external financial donations more and ordinary activists less"

Douglas Taylor concludes:

"However, I am very clear in my own mind that the Conservative Party does not represent my ideals any longer and is, in fact, deliberately subverting the principles that I stand for. If I was new to politics now I would not join the Conservative Party."

Filed under:

    Conservatives
    Westminster


