Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040103.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


British People Put Last: 1.1 Billion Cut in Schools Budget  But 3 Billion for Afghanistan War
April 5, 2010

fund-education-not-warsThe schools budget in Britain has been cut by 1.1 billion while Government spending on the war in Afghanistan has risen to 3 billion per year.

The Department for Children, Schools and Families has been told to cut 1.1 billion from its budget by implementing efficiency savings by 201213, Childrens Secretary Ed Balls has announced.

At the same time, both Tories and Labour have vowed to intensify the war in Afghanistan which already costs the taxpayer 3 billion per year.

Documents released in July 2009 show that the total education budget will fall by 100 million this year, primarily due to the Government deficit.

The education budget cuts (published on the Treasurys website) show that Government spending throughout will be cut this year by 0.7 percent.

This amounts to almost 3 billion  the exact amount spent on the illegal and immoral war in Afghanistan.

The cuts are necessary because the Government  supported by the Tories  have spent 49 billion on the war in Iraq, at least 30 billion in foreign aid over the same period and 60.1 billion every year on EU membership.

The Government has also bailed out the banks for untold billions, while the recession which the credit crisis caused has reduced taxation income. Public debt is to more than double to 1.3 trillion in the next four years.

Mr Balls has claimed that the Tories need to decide if they want to fund schools or pay for tax cuts.

In reality, neither is necessary. Simply by cutting billions off expenditure (foreign wars, foreign aid, EU membership) it will be possible to avoid tax or National Insurance rises while maintaining and even increasing front-line expenditure on services at home.

The British National Party is the only political party whose policy is to fund education for British people, and not to wage foreign wars.

Posted in National News | Comments (46)

