Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060023.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

change society | back the nhs

Back the NHS
We will back the NHS. We will increase health spending every year. We will give patients morechoice and free health professionals from the tangle of politically-motivated targets that get in theway of providing the best care. We will give patients better access to the treatments, services andinformation that improve and extend lives, boost the nation’s health, and reform social care.
More than three years ago, David Cameronspelled out his priorities in three letters – NHS.Since then, we have consistently fought toprotect the values the NHS stands for and havecampaigned to defend the NHS from Labour’scuts and reorganisations. As the party of theNHS, we will never change the idea at its heart– that healthcare in this country is free at thepoint of use and available to everyone based onneed, not ability to pay.We have a reform plan to make the changesthe NHS needs. We will decentralise power, sothat patients have a real choice. We will makedoctors and nurses accountable to patients,not to endless layers of bureaucracy andmanagement. We can’t go on with an NHS thatputs targets before patients.We will make the performance of the NHStotally transparent by publishing informationabout the kind of results that healthcareproviders are achieving, so there is no hidingplace for failure. We will increase access tovital drugs and services, and create a greaterfocus on preventing people getting ill in thefirst place. This is how we will achieve our
ambition for the NHS to deliver some of thebest healthcare in the world.We are the party of the NHS today because wenot only back the values of the NHS, we backits funding and have a vision for its future.Give patients more choiceWe understand the pressures the NHS faces, sowe will increase health spending in real termsevery year. But on its own this will not beenough to deliver the rising standards of carethat people expect. We need to allow patientsto choose the best care available, givinghealthcare providers the incentives they need todrive up quality.So we will give every patient the power tochoose any healthcare provider that meets NHSstandards, within NHS prices. This includesindependent, voluntary and community sectorproviders. We will make patients’ choicesmeaningful by:• putting patients in charge of makingdecisions about their care, including controlof their health records;
• spreading the use of the NHS tariff, sofunding follows patients’ choices; and,• making sure good performance is rewardedby implementing a payment by resultssystem, improving quality.We will publish detailed data about theperformance of healthcare providers online, soeveryone will know who is providing a goodservice and who is falling behind, and wewill measure our success on the health resultsthat really matter – such as improving cancerand stroke survival rates or reducing hospitalinfections.Patients will be able to rate hospitals anddoctors according to the quality of care theyreceived. We will give the public a strong andindependent voice through HealthWatch, astatutory body with the power to investigateand support complaints.We will strengthen the power of GPs aspatients’ expert guides through the healthsystem by:• giving them the power to hold patients’budgets and commission care on their behalf;• linking their pay to the quality of theirresults; and,• putting them in charge of commissioninglocal health services.Trust healthcare professionalsDoctors and nurses need to be able to usetheir professional judgement about what isright for patients, instead of being forced tofollow bureaucratic processes that often putlives at risk. That is why we will scrap thepolitically-motivated targets that have noclinical justification. We will set NHS providersfree to innovate by ensuring that they becomeautonomous Foundation Trusts.We will make sure that funding decisions aremade on the basis of need, and commissioningdecisions according to evidence-based qualitystandards, by creating an independent NHSboard to allocate resources and providecommissioning guidelines. We will ensure thatNHS staff are protected if they raise concernsabout patient safety.NHS staff will be properly accountable topatients for their performance, removing theneed for expensive layers of bureaucracy tooversee the NHS. As a result, we will be able tocut the cost of NHS administration by a thirdand transfer resources to support doctors andnurses on the frontline.

Increase access to vital drugsand services
People want an NHS that is easy to access atany time of day or night. We will commissiona 24/7 urgent care service in every area ofEngland, including GP out of hours services,and ensure that every patient can access a GPin their area between 8am and 8pm, seven daysa week. We will introduce a single number forevery kind of urgent care – to run in parallelwith the emergency number 999.We will stop the forced closure of A&E andmaternity wards, so that people have betteraccess to local services, and give mothers a realchoice over where to have their baby, with NHSfunding following their decisions. We willcreate local ‘maternity networks’ to ensure thatmothers can safely access the right care, in theright place, at the right time.When patients are forced to go to hospital, theyexpect the highest standards of cleanliness.But infections like MR SA now kill morethan three times as many people as are killedon the roads each year. We will increasethe number of single rooms in hospitals, asresources allow, helping the battle againstinfection and providing safety and privacy. Asa result, we will end the scandal of mixed-sexaccommodation – which Labour have failed todo. And we will not pay hospitals in full when apatient is left with an avoidable infection.NHS patients rightly expect to be among thefirst in the world to access effective treatments,but under Labour they are among the last.We want more people to access the drugs andtreatments that would prolong or improve theirlives by reforming the way drug companiesare paid for NHS medicines. Using moneysaved by the NHS through our pledge to stopLabour’s jobs tax, we will create a Cancer DrugFund to enable patients to access the cancerdrugs their doctors think will help them.To help the fight against cancer further, we will:• give thousands more people – especiallyyoung people – access to effective drugsto treat rare cancers by changing the waythese drugs are commissioned;• encourage clinical trials of innovativetechniques to diagnose and treat cancer; and,• support the roll out of screening programmesfor common cancers.Under Labour, fewer people are able tosee an NHS dentist. So we will introducea new dentistry contract that will focus onachieving good dental health, not simply thenumber of treatments achieved. This will tienewly-qualified dentists into the NHS for fiveyears and allow dentists to fine people whoconsistently miss appointments. These changeswill allow us to give one million more peopleaccess to an NHS dentist and give every fiveyear old a dental check-up.

Take control of your care
Where possible we want to devolve controlover health budgets to the lowest possible level,so people have more control over their healthneeds. For people with a chronic illness or along-term condition, we will provide access toa single budget that combines their health andsocial care funding, which they can tailor totheir own needs.The UK’s six million carers play anindispensable role in looking after friendsor family members who need support. Notonly do they provide help to some of the mostvulnerable people in society, the unpaid workthey do contributes £87 billion worth of valuea year – sometimes at the cost of carers’finances and even their health. We will supportcarers, and those they look after, by providingdirect payments to help with care needs andby improving access to respite care.We will provide £10 million a year beyond 2011to support children’s hospices in their vitalwork. And so that proper support forthe most sick children and adults cancontinue in the setting of their choice,we will introduce a new per-patient fundingsystem for all hospices and other providersof palliative care.We reject Labour’s plans for a compulsory‘death tax’ on everyone to pay for social care,regardless of their needs. We want to createa system which is based on choice and whichrewards the hundreds of thousands of peoplewho care for an elderly relative full-time. Sowe will allow anyone to protect their homefrom being sold to fund residential care costsby paying a one-off insurance premium that isentirely voluntary. Independent experts suggestthis should cost around £8,000. We will supportolder people to live independently at home andhave access to the personal care they need. Wewill work to design a system where people cantop up their premium – also voluntarily – to coverthe costs of receiving care in their own home.A healthier nationLifestyle-linked health problems like obesityand smoking, an ageing population, and thespread of infectious diseases are leading tosoaring costs for the NHS. At the same time,the difference in male life expectancy betweenthe richest and poorest areas in our country isnow greater than during Victorian times.We will turn the Department of Health intoa Department for Public Health so that thepromotion of good health and prevention ofillness get the attention they need. We willprovide separate public health funding to localcommunities, which will be accountable for –and paid according to – how successful theyare in improving their residents’ health. Inaddition, we will:
• introduce a health premium – weighting publichealth funding towards the poorest areas withthe worst health outcomes;• enable welfare-to-work providers andemployers to purchase services fromMental Health Trusts; and,• increase access to effective ‘talking’ therapies.
