Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030092.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

SNP's local and national champions
Thu, 15/04/2010 - 10:48

SNP Depute Leader and Deputy First Minister Nicola Sturgeon MSP today called on voters to use their ballot on May 6th to elect a winning team with a positive vision for Scotland as she said that the common cuts agendas of the London parties and their phoney war had nothing to offer Scotland.

Speaking as she joined the SNP's candidate in Ochil, Annabelle Ewing, at Recreation  Park - the home of Alloa Athletic Ms Sturgeon said:

Alloa Athletic FC are a great example of local champions and are already at the heart of their community.

"And voters in this election have the chance to back their own national and local champions at Westminster.

"Now, more than ever, Scotland needs a strong team to stand up against the
common cuts agendas of the London parties.

"Tory, Labour and Lib Dem - all are planning swingeing cuts to
Scotland's budget and Scotland's vital services.

"Only the SNP are offering a different choice.

"While London politicians are sitting in party headquarters rehearsing for sterile leaders debates, the SNP is out in our communities speaking to local people.

"While the UK parties are all planning disastrous cuts to the Scottish budget, the SNP is fighting for fair funding.

"And while they plan politics as usual, the SNP is offering a fresh start for Westinster politics in London and a positive vision for Scotlands future."

SNP Candidate for Ochil and South Perthshire Annabelle Ewing added:

Every town, city and community deserves a local champion and a winning team for Scotland.

"At this election, the SNP are the only team with a different game plan.

Alloa Athletic are local champions at the heart of this community and I hope the people of Ochil and South Perthshire will back me as their champion at home and in Westminster as they back Alloa.

"While the London plan politics as usual, the SNP is offering a fresh
start for Westinster politics in London and a positive vision for
Scotlands future."
Filed under:

    General Election
    SNP


