Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040029.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Importing Third World Culture: Pakistani First Cousin Marriages Cause 33% of All Birth Defects in Britain
March 21, 2010

Islamic-Marriage-CentreThe Pakistani culture of marrying first cousins is the direct cause of 33 percent of all genetic birth defect children born in this country, a statistic which inflicts massive costs on the NHS-supporting taxpayers and social services, new figures have found.

Official  and out-of-date  birth records show that at the last count Pakistanis were responsible for 3 percent of the births in this country, but make up 33 percent of the 15 to 20,000 children born each year with genetic defects.

In Bradford, 75 percent of Pakistanis are married to first cousins. According to reports, the trend is also evident in Birmingham, where figures show that one in ten of all children born to first cousins died in childhood or suffered from a serious genetic disorder.

Overall, half of all Pakistanis in Britain marry a first cousin. As a result, they are 13 times more likely to produce children with genetic disorders than the general population, according to the Government-sponsored research.

The figures will be officially released by Crossbench peer Baroness Ruth Deech next week. She will call for the Government (i.e the taxpayers) to launch a campaign to warn migrants of the risks of marriages between cousins.

Baroness Deech will warn that such marriages can be a barrier to the integration of minority communities and increases the risk of birth defects in children.

In the speech, she will say that first cousin marriages are on the rise and the practice is at odds with freedom of choice, romantic love and integration.

The practice of first cousin marriages is continuing because of financial reasons  either to settle debts or provide financial support for relatives abroad; helping relatives to migrate to Britain or wanting to provide a ready-made family for an immigrant spouse.

Meanwhile, British taxpayers must shoulder the burden for this Third World practice imported into Britain as a result of the continuing immigration invasion.

euro-cover.p65Recommended reading: The Immigration Invasion: How Third World Immigration is Destroying the First World and What Must be Done to Stop It.

A shocking book detailing the full extent of the Third World immigration wave which is swamping the Western World.

Using the latest numbers and projections, it explains why Third World immigration will destroy the First World, with individual chapters on Britain, Europe, Russia, Canada, the USA, Australia and New Zealand. Shows that, if left unchecked, the First World will be overrun within the next 50 years.  Softcover, 140 pp. 11.95 Click here to order.

Posted in National News | 58 Comments 
Lib Dem, Labour and Tory-endorsed UAF Street Thugs Stoke Violence, Say Police
March 21, 2010

bennett-swp-uafThe extremist leftist UAF street thugs  who are officially endorsed by the Lib Dem, Labour and Tory parties  have been condemned by Greater Manchester Police (GMP) as seeking violent confrontation with the sole intention [of] creating disorder after yesterdays shocking scenes in Bolton.

UAF secretary Weyman Bennett, who is also a central committee member of the ultra-left extremist Socialist Workers Party, was arrested and charged with conspiracy to organise violent disorder after his UAF gangsters attacked police and passersby.

The UAF is officially endorsed by the leader of the Conservative Party, David Cameron; Labour MP and long-time violent street activist Labour MP Peter Hain; Keith Vaz MP (head of the Labour Partys Black Socialist Society); expenses swindler Harry Cohen MP; and Lib Dem MEP Chris Davies, amongst many other MPs from all three parliamentary parties.

All of these politicians are formally signed-up supporters of the UAF and their names appear prominently on that organisations founding charter.

UAF-SIGNATORIES-HIGHLIGHTED

The UAF proudly carries their names under the heading Signatoties [sic] to the UAF founding statement.

A measure of the extremist violent nature of the UAF can be seen from the official reaction issued by the GMP  who are themselves stricken with political correctness.

After arresting at least 65 UAF thugs, GMP Assistant Chief Constable Garry Shewan said his officers faced a lot of hostility and unwarranted attacks which injured many officers.

Today in Bolton we have seen groups of people, predominantly associated with the UAF, engaging in violent confrontation, he said.

It is clear to me that a large number have attended with the sole intention of committing disorder and their actions have been wholly unacceptable.

Turning their anger on to police officers, they acted with, at times, extreme violence and their actions led to injuries to police officers, protesters and members of the public.

The two factions were supposed to stay within the designated areas for their demonstrations on Victoria Square. The UAF thugs, however, were not content to peacefully demonstrate and attacked the police and passersby at random, leading to the arrests.

Two members of the public were injured by demonstrators and taken to a nearby shop for treatment, the police said.

The fact that the politically correct GMP saw fit to identify the UAF as the troublemakers is an indication of just how violently these gangsters behaved.

The UAF is also formally endorsed by Unite and most other trade unions; David Seymour (political editor of the Daily Mirror); Mark Seddon (Tribune editor); Afzal Khan, (North West representative, Muslim Council of Britain); Dr Siddiqui (Muslim Parliament), John Haylett (editor of the Communist Partys Morning Star newspaper), and Leroy Logan chair of the Metrpolitan [sic] Black Police Association.

It seems that Mr Cameron and the other politicians appear to have no problem associating themselves with these violent communists, blacks-only organisations and Socialist Workers Party central committee members.

Posted in National News | 145 Comments 
Tories to Blame for EU Immigration Disaster in Peterborough
March 20, 2010

lies-tory-poster

The Conservative Party, who, under John Major, adopted the European Union freedom of movement directive, is directly to blame for the squatter immigration disaster which has wrecked the lives of dozens of British families in Peterborough.

The residents have of late been overrun with squatters from Eastern Europe, with media reports highlighting cases where homeless migrants have taken over coal sheds, backyards and even a tree house.

All of the migrants refuse to leave. Police and the local council say there is nothing they can do as the squatters have to be removed by the property owners themselves.

In an astonishing act of hypocrisy, local Tory MP Stewart Jackson accused the Labour Party of being responsible for what he called uncontrolled immigration.

In reality, it was Mr Jacksons party who signed up to the EUs freedom of movement directive, which gave all EU nationals the right of residence in Britain.

The Eastern Europeans have entered Britain without hindrance ever since many of those nations became members of the EU  an organisation to which the Conservative Party is also fully committed.

The media reports from Peterborough have contained horror stories from this Tory party gift to Britain.

One report quoted resident Ian Treasure, 41, who said that a man from the Czech Republic is living in his coal shed and will not leave.

The area has become overrun and it is disgusting, Mr Treasure was quoted as saying.

The worst thing is that nobody is doing anything about it. It just gets worse.

It all started in November. I was looking out the window and I saw a mattress in my shed. It turned out I had a lodger there.

Im not sure how many there are because I try to stay away from them but Im fed up because they regularly drink in our gardens and take drugs.

I have asked the man, who speaks broken English and has scabs on his face, to leave dozens of times.

The angriest I have got was the first time I saw drug needles there in January. I freaked out, he was quoted as saying.

The polices hands are tied. All they can do is move them on. They would be back so it would be a waste of time.

Another resident, Ricky Smith, 23, said he had tried to remove a squatter in his own shed after he defecated on his lawn.

I caught him defecating on my lawn, where my dog plays. I had to build a fence to keep him out of that part of the garden so my dog doesnt get ill playing in his mess.

Posted in National News | 173 Comments 
Labours (Inter)National Lottery
March 20, 2010
Peruvian Farm Wife: Guinea Pig for dinner, courtesy of the UK lottery players.

Peruvian Farm Wife: Guinea Pig for dinner, courtesy of the Labour Party

National Lottery funding is dished out to African dance troupes, prisoners painting classes and equipment for Peruvian guinea pig farmers  but not a single penny is available for any organisation which pledges to promote and protect English culture.

This shocking fact has emerged after South Wales British National Party superactivist Roger Philips asked the National Lottery Commission under a Freedom of Information (FOI) request about grants made to good causes.

The commission was unable to assist Mr Phillips, but they did provide a web link to the lottery grants database, which records all payments made since 1995  and reveals some peculiar Labour government pet projects as the recipients of funding.

A search established that 153 grants amounting to 7,366,692 have been made to Muslim organisations, in comparison with 106 grants worth 3,366,924 made to Christian organisations, amounting to less than half of the total donated to Islamic causes.

There have been 2365 grants awarded to organisations which promote multicultural ideology, amounting to 184,278,549.

Schemes operating out of the heavily Islamified and Labour-controlled Tower Hamlets  with its 15,000 council staff and 1.1 billion budget  have received 207,563,446 in lottery grants since 1995.

The more unusual grants include:

6,035,976 granted to the Black Photographers Association in 2002.

5,078,472 granted to the British Refugee Council in 2007.

2,000,000 granted to Pathe Productions for their Bollywood project in 2003.

1,011,104 granted to Health Unlimited for a radio service broadcasting in the vicinity of the African Great Lakes.

7,040,000 (2003) and 5,050,000 (2000) granted to Rich Mix Cultural Foundation for the promotion of ethnic  minorities impact on the London economy and culture. (The BNP website offers this service free of charge.)

The commission was keen to stress that they do not distribute the funds directly; responsibility is delegated to outside bodies who are selected by parliament, including arts, sports and films councils,  and the Big Lottery Fund: the body responsible for distributing 670 million a year, of which 70 million goes to international projects.

The Big Lottery Fund receives around 14p of every pound paid into the lottery.

It has been heavily criticised in the past, once being compared to a Stealth Tax because the grants from this fund contribute towards projects that are usually, or should be, state-funded.

Labour ministers have been accused of using lottery funding to meet ministerial targets, or to meet Labours culturally Marxist social objectives.

The only indigenous English species the funding bodies seem concerned with are water invertebrates and plants.

Posted in Michael Wood, National News | 153 Comments 
Tony Blair Draws Profits from His Illegal War in Iraq
March 20, 2010

tony_blairTony Blair has earned hundreds of thousands of pounds from a lucrative contract with oil company UI Energy, one of the biggest investors in post-war Iraqs oilfields.

Details of Mr Blairs dealings have emerged after his frantic attempts to keep them secret ended after they were published by the Advisory Committee on Business Appointments (ACBA).

The news has dealt another blow to the British peoples confidence in the honesty of their public servants and institutions, as the ACBA had allowed Mr Blair to keep the deal secret for at least 20 months.

The ACBA, set up to vet the jobs of former ministers in order to ease public concerns about their use of contacts made in public service for financial gain, is packed with former politicians from all of the three Westminster political parties and their associates.

It is therefore not surprising that they have never prevented any former politicians from taking lucrative jobs in the private sector. Earlier this month, the Government rejected calls for the appointment of more committee members from outside the world of politics.

Mr Blair is known to have made in excess of 20 million since leaving Westminster in 2007, although many of his business dealings and other ventures are clouded in secrecy, so the true extent of his earnings can only be guessed at.

However, many of his lucrative deals can be traced directly to his actions in involving Britain in the illegal Iraqi war.

Not bad for the leader of a socialist political party of the champagne variety which managed to bankrupt Britain and ruin the prosperity of the British people.

Posted in National News | 135 Comments 
British People Put Last: 2 Billion More Spent on Foreign Aid than on Englands Universities
March 19, 2010

fund-education-not-warsBritains taxpayer-funded foreign aid budget is now at least 2 billion higher than Englands university education budget, with Tory, Labour and Lib Dems all committed to spending even more on overseas aid next year.

According to figures released by the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE), universities will be provided with a fund of 7.3 billion next year, which is some 449 million less than what the institutions expected or needed.

This will cause job losses and thousands of fewer places for British kids at university next year. Scottish and Welsh universities will receive their budgets later, but they are also expected to face cuts.

At the same time, a statement issued by the Department for International Development (DFID) revealed that the direct spend budget of the Governments foreign aid programme for 2010/11 is 7.76 billion  the difference being more than the cut to Englands university funding budget.

As shocking as these figures are, the DFID announcement has deliberately understated the budget spend, hiding the true cost with an administrative trick.

The figures they announced are only the direct aid programme, and not the total cost, which is called the Gross Public Expenditure on Development (GPEX), which adds nearly 2 billion each year to total DFID expenditure.

For example, the GPEX in 2007/08 amounted to 6.027 billion, of which 5.2 billion was direct aid. The GPEX for 2006/07 was 7.4 billion, of which 4.9 billion was direct aid, and the GPEX for 2005/06 was 6.6 billion, of which 4.4 billion was direct aid.

Almost all universities have seen funding reduced, with the biggest loser being the London Business School which has had 12 percent taken off its budget. The education budget cuts come at the same time that record numbers of people have applied to go to university.

The Government has claimed that the deficit is the cause of the budget cuts.

This does not however explain why the Labour regime can find 9 billion per year for foreign aid and 3 billion per year for the war in Afghanistan.

It seems that the ruling elite would much rather give tax money in aid to nuclear powers like Pakistan and India, and fight an illegal and immoral war in Afghanistan, than subsidise British universities.

The Tories are equally complicit in this treason against Britain. The Conservative Party is committed to continuing the conflict in Afghanistan and has announced that they will intensify British involvement in that war.

In addition, the Tories have also promised to increase the foreign aid budget to 13 billion per year.

Only the British National Party demands the immediate withdrawal of Britain from the Afghanistan war which has nothing to do with us.

Only the British National Party says that all foreign aid should be halted and these billions spent on pressing problems  such as education  at home.

Only the British National Party puts the interests of the British people first.

Posted in National News | 86 Comments 
Pathetic Labour Rag Caught out Lying Again
March 19, 2010

eggz-mirrorThe increasingly laughable and pathetic lying Labour rag known as the Mirror has been caught out lying once again in a smear story which claims someone was converted to the BNP in the 1980s by reading a copy of Identity magazine  which did not even appear until 1999.

The third-rate Mirror, which runs anti-BNP campaigns in alliance with a well-known Communist Party front crank group, published an article from a Pete in the My Story section of their paper yesterday called I was a BNP bigot until I fell for this woman.

The article claims to be the story of a former BNP regional organiser who fell in love with a Jamaican woman.

The hilarious lie is contained within the article:

If someone had said to me in the 80s that Id marry a black woman, Id have said Never in a million years!

You see, I dread to think how many years Id been active with the BNP. I was in my late teens when it all started. I was always looking back to the good old days of England. I was worried about immigration and I couldnt see where it would all end.

Then I read a BNP magazine called Identity, and I thought, I agree with that all the way. Thats when I got active doing leafleting for them, and eventually I progressed to regional organiser.

I was blinded by it. They said what I wanted to hear. I was involved right through the 80s, when BNP founder John Tyndall was in charge before Nick Griffin, who I also became friendly with.

Unfortunately for the lying Mirror newspaper, Identity magazine was only launched in 1999 after Mr Griffin became leader of the BNP.

It would therefore have been impossible for Pete to have been converted to the BNP by reading a copy of Identity in the 1980s as this bogus article says.

This claim, like the rest of the article, has simply been fabricated.

The British National Party dismisses with contempt these pathetic lies from the increasingly desperate Marxist weirdoes at the Mirror.

It is a measure of their political bankruptcy that they must resort to such weak and easily disprovable lies instead of tackling the real issues of the day, which are:

- Britain is being colonised by the Third World through mass immigration;

- Britain is being Islamified as a result of that immigration invasion;

- Britain is being economically destroyed after decades of Tory and Labour misrule;

- Britains sovereignty and independence are being subverted by membership of the European Union; and

- Britain has been dragged into Labour/Tory-supported foreign wars which have nothing to do with us and which are crippling the countrys finances, not to mention the hundreds of deaths they have caused.

These are the real issues upon which people will vote, not made up lies from gutter scribblers masquerading as journalists.

Posted in National News | 99 Comments 
Iconic British Black Cab to be Built in China
March 19, 2010

The destruction of Britain under the Labour/Tory plan took yet another leap forward with the announcement that production of the iconic black cab will be moved to China.

The black cabs were made by Coventry-based companyManganese Bronze, which has now been bought by a Chinese company.

Maganese Bronze confirmed in a statement that the  manufacture of its TX4 black cab vehicles body panels and chassis will go to China following the change in ownership.

It said the parts for the TX4 vehicles will now be made in Shanghai following the decision of one of its suppliers to cease production of a specialist painting process.

The decision will cost an estimated 60 British workers their jobs and be yet another body blow to what remains of Britains once mighty car industry.

Manganese Bronze sells the bulk of its production to London based taxi companies, with the remainder being sold to cab operators in other major British cities.

These companies will soon have to source new vehicles and spares from China or Germany.

The company is reported as having made a pre-tax loss of over 8m last year, which came on top of a 6m loss in 2008.

Manganese Bronzes takeover by the Chinese follows the sale of Mini and Rolls-Royce to the Germans, Jaguar Land Rover to the Indians and Aston Martin to a Middle East-based concern.

It illustrates the hollowness of Gordon Browns aping of the British National Partys slogan: British jobs for British workers.

When we say it  we mean it.

Posted in National News | 75 Comments 
Immigration-Fuelled Overpopulation  The Ignored Elephant in the CPREs Living Room
March 19, 2010

The Campaign for the Protection of Rural England (CPRE) has released a manifesto which asks all parties to protect the environment  but which conspicuously ignores the single greatest threat to Britains countryside, namely immigration-fuelled overpopulation.

Copies of the CPREs publication, described as its Manifesto for the General Election, have been received by a number of prospective parliamentary candidates across the country.

The document has much to commend it, and much of what it proposes is fully in agreement with British National Party policy on rural and environmental affairs.

Its what it doesnt say that speaks volumes.

Despite accepting the need to control urban sprawl and specifically that caused by the Governments madcap plan to build at least two million new homes over the next 20 years, it says nothing about overpopulation.

Whereas every rational person willingly concedes the need to eradicate fly-tipping, improve rural transport and protect and extend our national parks, few can be unaware of the threat posed by immigration-fuelled overpopulation to both the environment and countryside.

The CPRE document states that they want enforcement of national targets for at least 80 percent of new housing and 85 percent of commercial development to be on brownfield land. This is a sentiment the BNP has already endorsed.

Elsewhere in their document they urge people to campaign strongly for the Green Belt, resisting pressure to alter Green Belt boundaries to allow urban sprawl, and supporting the case for creating new areas of Green Belt. This has also long been a BNP campaign issue.

Yet nowhere in the CPRE publication does it mention immigration, which is by far the biggest driver of population growth in Britain.

This is a strange omission; arising, some claim, from the CPREs slavish subservience to political correctness.

Whatever the reason, the fact remains that population growth in Britain is being driven by mass immigration, with the astonishing birth rates of some sections of the immigrant community a significant secondary factor.

This has this been confirmed by non-political organisations such as MigrationWatch and also widely reported in the media.

There can be no rational excuse for this omission in a document from an organisation claiming to protect rural England.

Both history and common sense should remind us that the greatest threat to any countrys environment and countryside comes from overpopulation. There are only a finite number of people that any given landmass can sustain from its own resources.

How have unsustainable populations in countries such as India and Bangladesh been protective of their respective natural environments or, for that matter, beneficial to the quality of life of their inhabitants?

If the CPRE wants to be taken seriously over its stated aims in respect of protecting the English countryside, then it has to recognise the undeniable link between immigration, overpopulation and environmental damage.

The BNP recognises this link, which is why its stance on rural and environmental issues is both credible and logical, a position arising in no small way from being untainted by political correctness.

Posted in National News | 53 Comments 
Anjem Choudary, Radical Islamist  and CRE Employee
March 18, 2010

trevor-phillips-choudaryThe most extreme Islamist in Britain today, Islam4UK leader Anjem Choudary, used to work for the Commission for Racial Equality (CRE), the immediate predecessor to Trevor Phillipss Equalities and Human Rights Commission (EHRC), a BNP News investigation has revealed.

The close ties between the EHRC and the radical Islamist, who has called for a military invasion of Britain by Muslims and arranged demonstrations calling for Queen Elizabeth II to be cursed by God, puts a brand new perspective on the recent legal harassment to which the BNP was subjected.

Mr Choudary was most recently in the limelight after he planned to block a Wootton Bassett funeral procession for British soldiers killed in Iraq.

His organisation has also called for the implementation of Sharia law in Britain.

The revelation of his links with the EHRC is contained in a video of a lecture given by Mr Choudary to a closed group of followers which has leaked onto the Internet.

In the lecture, Mr Choudary also calls for a violent Islamic invasion of Britain, which he says would be one of four ways in which Islam will come to dominate Britain.

He also makes some snide and utterly untrue allegations about the BNP, but the important admission in the video comes near the end while  he is discussing how Islam is incompatible with Western society and then admits to having worked for the CRE in the 1990s.

He starts the lecture by detailing the four methods by which Islam is going to overrun Britain.

The Islamic state my dear Muslims can only come via four means  write them down and remember them. There are only four ways in which the Muslims will take the authority, Mr Choudary said.

Number one, if the Islamic state is established somewhere else in the world and they come and they conquer and they take the authority. That is a nice way of doing it, the foreign policy of jihad. They will come and Britain will be under the Sharia.

The second way that authority can be taken wherever you are in the world is for the people themselves to embrace Islam, and for themselves to rise and take the authority.

The third way that the authority can be taken is if certain sections of the community overthrow the regime. Like for example in Syria and Pakistan you have military coups.

Every other year they used to have a military coup in Syria. That is the way in fact the messenger of Mohammed did it in Medina.

The Fourth way its going to happen is if jihad began here like in Kosovo or Bosnia and the people came from another area to support us and the regime was overthrown.

If you look, in the past it used to be a case of multiculturalism. They used to say that. Remember that? In the 1970s and 80s the Commission for Racial Equality they used to say we believe in multiculturalism.

I used to work at the CRE at one point in the early 90s.

Remember with [...?] And, er, he used to be a senior lawyer there in fact. And [...] multiculturalism  everyone has their own culture, you can all practise it together.

Suddenly the Muslims said hang about  our culture we cant practice it with you because we believe cutting the hand of the thief. We believe stoning the adulterer. We believe we need to remove you and send the army of jihad.

This, then, is the type of person who found employment at the EHRCs predecessor. It is little wonder that this taxpayer-funded political organisation carries out the bidding of those who would see Britain utterly overrun and destroyed.

Posted in National News | 193 Comments 
1000 New Members for BNP in First Three Working Days after Membership Ban Lifted
March 18, 2010

chairmans-updateMore than 1000 new membership applications have been received by the British National Party since the membership ban was lifted last Friday, party leader Nick Griffin MEP has announced.

In a special email newsletter released exclusively to subscribers yesterday, Mr Griffin said: Trevor Phillips and his twisted band of anti-British bigots will probably have a hysterical fit when they read this, but over 1,000 people have joined the British National Party since the membership ban was lifted on Friday afternoon.

Mr Griffin then took the opportunity to thank all those supporters who gave generously during the difficult months of the membership ban.

Without your generosity, determination and quintessential British stubbornness, our party would have been bankrupted long ago, he said.

The BNP call centre has worked non-stop to cope with the incoming calls and mail-based applications and is putting in extra hours to handle the influx.

The general election is fast approaching and we cannot afford to lose a single day now, Mr Griffin continued.

Thanks to the membership ban being lifted, there are multiple ways in which you can help kick-start our campaign. Everyone can now help our campaign, members and non-members alike, he said.

The first method Mr Griffin outlined was to join the British Resistance.

The BNP is the only hope for our country, our children and grandchildren. Why not join the British Resistance to political correctness, multiculturalism and the enforced colonisation of our country? Standard membership costs only 30.

Membership application can be made online by clicking here.

The second method of helping is to become a Life Member.

Life members are that small elite of British patriots that sign up to the cause of British nationalism for life, not just for one year. Life membership comes with various other attractive benefits, Mr Griffin said.

Life membership can be purchased by clicking here.

The third method is to become a Gold Member. Gold members stand out from the crowd due to the unique gold membership badge which tells everybody that you have made the extra commitment, Mr Griffin said.

Gold membership costs just 60 and can be purchased by clicking here.

The fourth way in which you can help the party, Mr Griffin continued, is to upgrade your membership.

Why not upgrade your existing membership to Gold or even Life? Upgrading your membership shows your commitment to our cause and provides real and substantial benefits to you and the party, he said.

Upgrades can be purchased by clicking here.

The fifth method of helping the party is to join the Trafalgar Club.

This is the BNPs exclusive dining and fundraising club. Members of the Trafalgar Club are not party members, so it is a perfect option for those supporters who wish to help without actually joining the party, Mr Griffin said.

Trafalgar Club membership may be purchased by clicking here.

The sixth method through which you can help the party is a direct donation to the election campaign.

Straightforward donations to our general election campaign war chest are needed more than ever, Mr Griffin said.

Time is running out fast and unless we all dig deep our campaign wont get off the ground. Donations may be made online by clicking here.

Alternatively call 0207-078-8838 and speak with a member of our team for any of the options above, Mr Griffin said.

Above all, we need all members and supporters to swing into furious action, leafleting, canvassing, distributing literature.

If you are unable for one reason or another to be active in our general election, then please choose from one of the six methods outlined above to give our activists the tools they need to fight this election and win, he concluded.

* You can sign up automatically for the free Chairmans Newsletter by clicking here.

Posted in National News | 97 Comments 
EU Justice Madness: British Courts Being Used to Suppress Freedom of Speech in Denmark
March 18, 2010

CB015978The bizarre European Unions justice system means that a libel case in London, brought by a Saudi Arabian against Danish newspapers over the Mohammed cartoons, will be used to suppress freedom of speech in Denmark.

This incredible scenario will play itself out after a Saudi lawyer, Faisal Yamani, launched a case in Londons libel courts on behalf of over 90,000 claimed descendants of the Prophet Mohammed who maintain that the Danish cartoon drawings have defamed them and the Islamic faith.

Ebbe Dal, managing director of Danske Dagblades Forening, the Danish national newspaper association, expressed concern that the UKs libel laws, considered tough by EU standards, will be used to restrict free speech in more liberal countries such as Denmark.

The Danish courts have decided that the case is not actionable and that we are allowed to print the drawings in Danish newspapers and websites, he said.

It would be very odd if a civilised country like Britain could go against that.

If this succeeded we would have to pay a lot of money to Saudi Arabians misusing the British courts to make it difficult for freedom of speech.

Last year Mr Yamani demanded that the Danish newspapers remove all cartoon images of Mohammed from their websites and issue prominent front page apologies.

Eleven Danish newspapers refused to comply with this demand. This refusal has now been followed up with the court action.

Denmarks justice minister, Lars Barfoed, has now formally complained to the European Commission that the EU rules would force Denmark to enact British court rulings.

It would, he said, damage Denmarks ancient right to freedom of expression.

It would be taking it to the extreme if a UK court could rule against the Danish media and then require compensation and court costs to be paid.

This point appears to have been acknowledged by an EU official who provided a compelling reason why Britain may be the country of choice for the plaintiffs by saying: We are well aware that there is a problem with libel and defamation tourism involving Britain, where judges can be sympathetic and damages awards are high.

Welcome to the EU madhouse, where an alleged offence committed in one country (Denmark) can be brought before the courts of a second country (Britain) by wealthy individuals from a third country (Saudi Arabia).

The most shocking part is that the outcome of the courts deliberations in Britain can be imposed upon Denmark, even if Danish courts have already ruled against that legal action.

Posted in National News | 87 Comments 

