Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040142.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


BNP Would Reinvigorate UK IT Industry
April 15, 2010

A British National Party government would reinvigorate the IT sector in Britain with massive investments in technology universities, protectionism for the local IT industry and jobs, the nationalisation of the telecoms infrastructure and the creation of a not-for-profit 100Mbps broadband service across the country.

This IT manifesto was outlined by BNP IT spokesman and webmaster Simon Bennett in an exclusive interview with the worlds leading online IT news source, ZDNet, which is owned by American media giant CBS Interactive.

In the interview, Mr Bennett said that the IT service sector  like all UK industries  has suffered greatly through years of neglect caused by the de-industrialisation policies followed by successive governments.

The gutting of the British manufacturing sector, which includes IT, will be reversed by a BNP government through a two-handed approach, Mr Bennett said.

The first policy is inward investment and protectionism of UK industries to rebuild our industrial and technological base.

The funds for this investment will be taken from the funding currently set aside for foreign aid (9bn per year), immigration (13bn per year), asylum (4bn per year), EU membership (60bn per year), illegal and immoral wars (49bn spent in Iraq and 3bn per year in Afghanistan), among other non-essential current budget allocations.

The second policy is the erection of technology universities specifically designed to teach IT, train up our own people and serve as centres of learning and excellence to train the next generation of IT software and hardware experts.

The latter step will obviate the current regimes policies of importing foreigners to do jobs that British people should be doing, a situation that is particularly prevalent in the IT sector and has been identified by the Association of Personnel Service Organisation (APSO) as a cause of unemployment in the UK IT industry, he said.

Mr Bennet said the partys long-term strategy for the communication sector is closely tied in to the partys policy of restoring national infrastructure to state ownership, as it always was and which is still the case in most of Europe.

Once this process is completed, the state-owned telecoms infrastructure will be under the same universal service obligation(USO) applied to the Post Office.

The Royal Mail is legally obliged to deliver mail across the country at a standard price and at set service levels. There is no reason why the telecoms infrastructure should not be obliged to deliver similar service objectives on a non-profit basis, which will then boost the entire economy by solving the problems of a lack of digital and rural broadband availability.

Other topics covered in the interview included:

- The demand that all personal data held by the state on any individual be made freely available to that person;

- All personal data held by private agencies such as credit bureaus should be available to the persons concerned at no cost, and that such agencies should not be allowed to blacklist any person without recourse to a court of law where a specific misdemeanour could be proven.

- That internet piracy could only be defeated by focussing on the uploaders of copyrighted material, and not on the downloaders.

- That no medical files and data of individuals held by the NHS should be given out to third parties.

- That a BNP government would scrap the National Identity Scheme and the Rural Payments Agency IT systems.

Read the full interview here.

Posted in National News | Comments (143)

