Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040078.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


EU Swindle and Labour Home Office Sloth Allows Congo Rapist to Stay in Britain
March 31, 2010

labourcrime01An asylum seeker rapist criminal from the Congo has won the right to stay in Britain because of the EU freedom of movement laws and the failure of the Labour Party-controlled Home Office to deport him.

A High Court judge ruled in the rapists favour just two hours before he was to have been put on a taxpayer paid for flight to Africa.

Alphonse Semo, of Deptford, south east London was jailed for eight years in 2002 for raping a Catford woman.

Semo threw his victim onto a rubbish heap after brutally raping and assulating her. He had just arrived in Britain claiming asylum.

Mr Justice Collins, presiding at the hearing, quashed the Home Office removal order on learning that Semo has plans to marry a Congolese woman with EU citizenship.

In practice it means that the convicted rapist can now live freely in any European Union country as the spouse of German national Bunsana Kalonji.

Mr Justice Collins said: It is difficult to have any sympathy for this claimant.

He came to this country from the Democratic Republic of Congo and was granted asylum.

He chose to misuse his time here by committing offences, the most serious of which was rape.

Semo and his fiance had originally planned to marry on March 30th, the day after his scheduled deportation, but then rearranged the marriage date to coincide with the same date as the deportation, it is claimed.

It remains to be seen whether Labours Home Office will appeal the courts decision.

This seems unlikely as despite the Government claiming to have a policy of deporting foreign national prisoners who have served or been sentenced to 12 months or more, they failed to deport Semo on his release from prison.

It has not been explained why Semo wasnt immediately arrested and taken to the nearest international airport, instead of a detention centre when he set foot outside of the prison gates.

This appears to be part of a pattern of the Labour-controlled Home Office being deliberately negligent in its duty of care towards the public and has once again revealed the difference between Government rhetoric and action when it comes to deporting foreign criminals.

A British National Government would not even entertain an asylum claim from the Congo for the simple reason that there are many safe countries surrounding that African state in which a genuine asylum seeker can take refuge.

Posted in National News | Comments (142)

