Text ID:
uk_pm_el_83_228080013.txt

Party Manifesto: SDP/All (uk) - National Elections 1983
-------------------------------------

EDUCATION AND TRAINING

The principal need in education and training is to release the full potential of the individual. It is on the skills and energies of our people that our survival depends. An increasingly complex and technical society places great demands on the educational system and as falling school numbers continue to release resources these must not be withdrawn but invested to create better education opportunities.

The needs of the under-fives have to be met by both education and the social services.

    We will ensure that at least one year of pre-school educational experience is available for all children under five;
    We will act to raise standards in the primary and secondary schools in three ways:
        i) by involving parents, teachers and local people more in the running of schools - these are the people who really care about standards;
        ii) by ensuring that children study a broader range of subjects than they do now right through to eighteen, putting more stress on maths, science and technical subjects as well as practical skills to make them better equipped for life in today's world. It is especially important to ensure that these opportunities are equally available to girls as well as boys;
        iii) by improving the in-service training of primary teachers and of others with specialist skills e.g. in maths. 
    we will develop a broader bridge between school and work including more part-time schooling, and more work experience and better technical education for all pupils;
    we will undertake a major re-organisation of education and training for the 16-19s, so that school leavers are not faced with the dole but can opt for either education and training or employment or a combination of the two. Present arrangements are disjointed. Britain is well behind its competitors, resources have been devoted to ad hoc schemes not necessarily leading to employment, and many young people are unable to acquire skills and qualifications. So we propose:
        i) a single Ministry of Education and Training combining the youth training functions of the MSC and the responsibilities of the Education Departments,
        ii) full-time vocational courses offering sustained and properly planned periods of work experience, and the replacement of the time-served apprenticeship with training to set national standards,
        iii) greater access to work experience for all 16-19 year old students and a right to further education and training for those of this age-group in work,
        iv) expansion of the YTS to enable all 17 year olds not covered by the above to participate in a Government training scheme,
        v) a new system of educational maintenance allowances to ensure that help is available to those who stay on at school, those who opt for further education and those who opt for further training. 
    we will increase access to Higher and Further Education. We shall also review the structure of higher education to see that people who are keen to work in industry are provided with the right range of skills at this level. This may mean for example students typically taking a wider range of courses before moving on to a job or more specialist education;
    we will actively support Adult and Continuing Education. Initial education alone cannot prepare people adequately for life. It must be made easier for them as part of their normal development to acquire new skills and to re4rain as technology advances.
    we will ensure further public support for the voluntary and statutory sectors of the youth service. 

Improvement in training facilities provided by the State will be accompanied by fiscal and other incentives to companies to increase their training efforts.

