Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228070016.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Home Affairs

The Judicial System

The British judicial system is under attack. The government has signalled its intention to restrict trial by jury. Our magistrate's courts are having severe difficulties coping with a rising workload and a large volume of new regulation. But these are minor issues compared with the threat to our legal system from the European Union and its determination to introduce a unified system for the whole EU.

The EU's proposed 'Corpus Juris' legal system is based on to the Napoleonic legal code that prevails in much of continental Europe, and it is very different from British tradition. Its main provisions are the establishment of a European public prosecutor, no presumption of innocence until proved guilty, and no right of habeus corpus: this means that prisoners can be held for long periods without charges being brought. In Britain it would complete the ending of trial by jury.

To complement this change, the Orwellian-sounding Europol police force has already been set up. Based in The Hague, this shadowy organisation began life with the ostensible objective of combating drugs and organised crime. Its remit has now been extended to cover political subversion - as defined by the European Commission. From next year, these Euro-police will be allowed to operate in member states at the request of the European public prosecutor, and national governments will be unable to help their own citizens. Unlike national police forces, the Europol will have diplomatic immunity - they cannot be sued by members of the public for false arrest, brutality or damage to property.

Corpus Juris and Europol are indicators of the EU's totalitarian direction. They illustrate the growing impotence of national governments against the monolithic Euro-state. For those who value freedom, they underline the need for withdrawal.

