Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030040.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

SNP champion fairer fuel prices
Mon, 22/03/2010 - 15:30
Following on from this weekends Scottish National Party's conference which gave unanimous backing to the partys support for a freeze in fuel duty and the introduction of a road fuel regulator, the Scottish Governments Finance Secretary John Swinney hit the campaign road running as he helped launch a local Fair Fuel Campaign with Perth & North Perthshire SNP MP Pete Wishart.
Mr Wishart was joined by John Swinney MSP, the MSP for North Tayside, and the owners of the Ballinluig and Aberfeldy service stations at the Ballinluig Motorgrill on the A9 this morning.
Commenting Mr Swinney said:
"London-based polticians simply don't seem to understand the impact that rising fuel prices are having on ordinary folk. What places like Perthshire and all of Scotland needs are more local champions like Pete Wishart to stand up for their interests.
It is ridiculous that an oil rich nation like Scotland should be reaping the benefits from our offshore resources  not watching as North Sea revenues flow into a black hole in Treasury coffers while the Scottish budget is slashed.
Speaking after the launch, Mr Wishart said:
According to the AA the burden of fuel duty and VAT on a tank of petrol in the UK has gone up by 11.46% since the Pre-Budget Report at the end of November 2008. This compares to just 2.23% in Austria and an average increase for 10 mainstream European countries, including France, Germany, and Holland, of 5.07%.
Its not just hauliers who suffer but ordinary families struggling to run a car for normal use. The effects of sky high fuel taxes also impact on prices in the stores with costs rising to deliver food and other products to the shops.
I can categorically state that I and my fellow SNP MPs will continue to oppose Labour's arbitrary fuel tax hikes and propose the introduction of a fuel duty regulator at the Budget to ensure price stability as well as lower fuel taxes for remote areas.
SNP candidates across the country will be distributing over 60,000 campaign postcards in the next few days urging voters who want to drive down Scottish fuel prices to Elect a Local Champion.
Filed under:

    fuel prices
    Westminster


