Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228070017.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Human Rights

In modern Europe, Britain effectively invented human rights. Freedom of speech, association and religious belief, free trade unions, parliamentary reform and respect for property rights were all pioneered in Britain. We have for centuries provided safe haven for those fleeing religious, political or racial persecution, a proud tradition that has enriched our economy and society.

After World War II, British politicians worked strenuously for international guarantees of freedom and justice for all. In 1951, Britain was amongst the first signatories to the European Convention of Human Rights and was a founder member of the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights. The UK Independence Party supports the principles of that Convention, because they are based on individual freedom rather than state control. But the Convention should be regarded as a series of guidelines, rather than as a binding legal code to be enforced without regard for differing national circumstances. The original aim of the Convention was to provide a flexible framework - in contrast to EU law, which is dictatorial, insensitive and dogmatic.

The UKIP supports the inclusion of the Convention of Human Rights into British domestic law. But the Human Rights Act (1999) that was supposed to achieve this is too rigid and so, ironically, it is against the spirit of the Convention. Instead of creating a culture of freedom and responsibility, it has become a pretext for politically correct interest groups to impose their will on government, society, and those they falsely claim to represent. The UKIP would therefore repeal the Human Rights Act and re-enact it to ensure that it is applied in a manner compatible with British custom and common law.

The EU's Charter of Fundamental Human Rights, that Britain has just signed, is a document of a fundamentally different kind, and it resembles more closely the constitution of the old Soviet Union.  Its aim, we are told, is to 'give Europe a soul' or prove that the EU is more than purely an economic machine. But the human rights under the Charter can be defined by the state and they take precedence over individual freedom. Freedom of speech and publication, freedom of religious organisations and freedom of private association are all at risk.

Taken to its logical conclusion, the EU's 'anti-discrimination' policy as reflected in the Charter means that a Christian school could be forced to employ atheist teachers, or a Muslim organisation to appoint Christian managers. The perverse effect of this will be to emphasise differences between sections of society and give power to self-appointed activists. The European Union favours divisive 'group' rights over individual freedom. In this connection, we note that most countries in the EU are in practice much less tolerant of racial or religious minorities than Britain. Only outside the EU will Britain be a truly inclusive society.

Although our government has insisted that the Charter is merely a consultative document, in reality it will be used as the basis for judgements by the European Court of Justice and it is the precursor to an EU Constitution. The UKIP regards this as a gross and unacceptable assault on our liberty, to which British people will never submit.

The UKIP - like the British people - believes that the state exists to protect freedom. This is quite different from the model favoured by the EU, in which rights are granted by the state and so the state can take them away. Withdrawal from the EU has become essential, as the only way to protect our common law rights and uphold our freedoms.

