Text ID:
uk_pm_el_83_228020025.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 1983
-------------------------------------

Equal rights

The next Labour government will lead a political offensive against racial disadvantage, discrimination and harassment; and we have set out our proposals in Labour's Programme 1982. To encourage equality and reduce discrimination, we will greatly expand funding to ethnic minority projects. We will also encourage local authorities, in selecting projects under the Urban Programme, to provide for greater ethnic minority participation. We will also:

    Stimulate a wide range of positive action programmes to ensure that ethnic minorities receive a fair deal - in employment, education, housing and social services: and encourage the keeping of ethnic records, in order to assess the needs of ethnic minorities and take steps to meet them.
    Launch a major public education initiative aimed at eliminating prejudice.
    Strengthen the existing Race Relations Act - in particular, to enable us to deal more effectively with racialist literature, speeches and marches; and to remove the exception for seamen recruited abroad.
    Appoint a senior minister to lead the offensive against racial inequality. 

We are concerned that homosexuals are unfairly treated. We will take steps to ensure that they are not unfairly discriminated against - especially in employment and in the definition of privacy contained in the 1967 Act - along the lines set out in Labour's Programme, 1982.

Nationality and immigration

Through their immigration and nationality laws, the Tories have divided families and caused immense suffering in the immigrant communities. We accept the need for immigration controls. But we will repeal the 1971 Immigration Act and the 1981 British Nationality Act and replace them with a citizenship law that does not discriminate against either women or black and Asian Britons.

Under our Nationality Act, we will restore rights removed by the Tories, such as the right to automatic citizenship if born in Britain. The Act will enable other Commonwealth and foreign nationals to acquire citizenship if they qualify by objective tests, and provide a right of appeal against the refusal of an application for citizenship. We will also ensure that the cost of acquiring citizenship will no longer be an obstacle to those who wish to apply.

Under our new Immigration Act we will liberalise the age limit criteria for children and the criteria for elderly parents and other relatives. We will simplify the procedures and commit the resources necessary for all applications to be processed promptly; and allow medical examinations, including x-rays, only for medical, not administrative purposes. The race and sex discrimination in the husbands and fiances' rules will be ended: we will restore the entitlement to admission to join a woman settled here irrespective of her citizenship, birthplace or ancestry. We will also ensure that immigration officials fully respect the human rights of those seeking entry. We will also:

    Consult Commonwealth governments so as to resolve the question of the other British nationals from independent countries who possess no other citizenship.
    Provide a right of appeal for those who the Home Secretary proposes to deport or exclude on security grounds.
    Establish a more independent and balanced panel of adjudicators for immigration appeals. 

