Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228060034.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

The regeneration of urban Britain

The future of the countryside is bound up with the future of our inner cities. As long as people leave the cities to occupy new houses built on green fields there can be no prospect of an urban revival.

We must start by making our cities places where families want to live and put down roots. That means tackling the problems that drive many familes to leave. First and foremost this means education and crime. In too many of our inner cities families with young children feel they have to get out to get educated. And until there is effective policing and the streets are safe, money spent improving houses or encouraging enterprise will have little impact.

The next Conservative Government will establish new local Regeneration Companies to drive the campaign to revitalise our inner cities and outer urban estates.

Working with local councils, businesses and people they will be able to buy extra policing strength, help set up Partner Schools, and tear down the worst tower blocks. They will have statutory powers to accelerate the planning and development of rundown areas.

We will support radical solutions to the long term decline of coastal towns - bringing in new measures to help them support and market their heritage, protect their coastline, improve transport links, and tackle the problems they face in housing asylum-seekers.

We will also tackle the problem of 'neighbours from hell'. We will enable the eviction of residents who break tenancy agreements, fail to pay their rent and desecrate the neighbourhood. We will tackle the problems which undermine the quality of life in these areas such as litter, graffiti, and dumped cars. We will also tackle insensitive siting of mobile phone masts without adequate consultation.

We will streamline planning procedures to make it easier for new houses to be built on brownfield sites. We will give local councils power to declare extra areas of local Green Belt.

And we will make Britain a nation of homeowners. We will increase the right-to-buy discounts on council homes and introduce a new rent-to-mortgage scheme. Homesteading grants will allow people to first repair, and then own empty council housing.

Conservatives will give housing associations more freedom to compete in the housing market. We will encourage greater involvement of tenants in running their estates.

Foot and Mouth: A Strategy for Recovery

Conservatives have played a constructive role throughout the Foot and Mouth crisis.We have put forward practical policies to speed up the eradication of the disease,give real help to businesses hit by the crisis and to ease the suffering of animals.

Immediately upon taking office we will implement a Strategy for Recovery including action to:

    speed up disposal of slaughtered animals
    unblock delays in compensation for affected farms
    offer interest-free loans for affected businesses
    properly fund campaigns to promote the tourist industry
    block high risk food imports to prevent Foot and Mouth recurring

