Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_060029.txt

Press Release from Party: Con

News story
Three strikes and Brown's been caught out
Wednesday, March 31 2010
Chris Grayling

On the same day Gordon Brown made a speech on immigration, he has been been reprimanded by the UK Statistics Authority for his use of dodgy immigration statistics in a podcast made last week.

But its the third time he has been caught out using misleading statistics this month.  Whether it is on immigration, defence spending or Labours policing pledge, one thing is clear  the British people cannot trust a word he says any more.

Shadow Home Secretary Chris Grayling said that Gordon Brown is "turning into a serial offender in misleading the British people in the run-up to the election".

"He gave false information to the Chilcot enquiry, his advertising campaign about policing was banned, and now he has given an inaccurate picture of his record on immigration", he said. "Britain should expect better from its Prime Minister".

1. Caught out on... immigration

Last Friday, Gordon Brown was caught out misleading the public on immigration statistics.  In a podcast, Gordon Brown argued that net inward migration has been going down for each of the last three years. To do this he used two different sets of statistics that should not be directly compared without caveats.

Now the independent UK Statistics Authority has reprimanded the Prime Minister by ruling that these statistics were not comparable, and warned him "not to mislead the public during the approaching general election campaign".

2. Caught out on... defence spending

Just eleven days earlier, Gordon Brown was forced to admit that he had misled Parliament and the Chilcot Inquiry about defence spending, whom he had told that the defence budget had increased every year under Labour.

But just days after the Chilcot Inquiry he was forced to admit that he was wrong. However, even his apology to the House of Commons was misleading: the defence budget was not cut "in one or two years" but on four separate occasions: in 1998, 1999, 2002 and 2007.

3. Caught out on... Labours policing pledge

Earlier this month, Gordon Brown claimed that people could expect their neighbourhood policing team to spend eighty per cent of their time on the beat. And a recent taxpayer-funded government advertising campaign pledged the same.

But the Advertising Standards Authority banned this pledge for being misleading. The pledge did not apply to all 140,000 police officers in England and Wales, only to the 13,500 neighbourhood constables and 16,000 community support officers who work in neighbourhood policing teams.
Go to news

    Subscribe
    Print



