Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040107.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Labours Climate Change Act: A Conspiracy to Defraud
April 6, 2010

The revelation that the Governments Climate Change Act will cost the taxpayer up to 18.3 billion per year between now and 2050, together with its sanitising enquiry into the Climate Studies Unit (CSU) scandal, proves that it is working hand-in-glove with the United Nations (UN) towards their global governance objectives.

The British National Party recently revealed the UNs covert plans for their Green World Order and global governance, terms widely interpreted as euphemisms for global government.

This may be read here.

These plans call for the transfer of some $54 trillion in the form of green taxes from the worlds richest nations to the poorest between now and 2050, and the establishment of global governmental political structures.

A huge problem for the UN has been the discrediting of its Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the damaging accusations following the publication of controversial emails from Britains government-backed CSU.

This is because the science underpinning the UNs project is almost entirely based on the findings of the IPCC and bodies such as the CSU.

As previously reported here, the UN has set up a supposedly independent enquiry into its IPCC.

This will be conducted by an organisation largely comprising individuals and organisations known to be man-made global warming advocates; suggesting that the exercise is little more than a whitewash.

Similarly, the recent Government enquiry into the CSU  which blatantly avoided the real issues  has largely exonerated it from any criticism; this was as entirely necessary as it was predictable.

Now details of the most expensive piece of legislation ever put through Parliament have been revealed.

According to Labours Department for Energy and Climate Change (DECC) the Climate Change Act (2008) is set to cost the British taxpayer up to 18 billion per annum between now and the UN projects implementation target date of 2050.

That works out at over 700 per year in unnecessary taxation for every household in the country, to combat non-existent man-made global warming.

As part of this Marxist redistribution of wealth between rich and poor nations, punitive regulations came into force last week in the form of new road tax rules which will force the owners of larger CO2 producing vehicles to pay even more tax.

In addition, the DECC has introduced its Carbon Reduction Scheme (CRS) which requires, by law, Britains 30,000 largest energy users to register with the Environment Agency.

Not only does the act of registration involve the payment of an administration fee to the Government from every user but it also requires the applicant to conduct an expensive evaluation to quantify its carbon-footprint.

All this so that they can be taxed at 12 per year for every ton of CO2 they produce.

It is also envisaged that, in time, not only will the Government increase the tax payable per tonne, but also the number of registered users through a lowering of the qualifying threshold requirement, as measured in tonnes of CO2 created per year.

Furthermore, in order to administer this totally unnecessary scheme, the Government intends to hire thousands of officials to check up on registered users to ensure they have not underestimated their CO2 output and hence their tax liability.

Heavy fines will be imposed on cheats.

As many of these licensed users will be energy producers, manufactures, farmers and supermarkets, there can be little doubt that these costs will be passed to the consumer.

To add insult to injury, this development comes hard on the news that the Government has contributed to green carbon-credits, said to be worth hundreds of millions of pounds, being paid by Western nations to Indias giant TATA Corporation  so that it can build that countrys largest coal-burning power station at Mundra, in Gujarat province.

It is claimed that the plant will generate 26 million tonnes of carbon dioxide every year  far more than any British plant.

Like everything else associated with Labour, the Climate Change Act is just another excuse to de-industrialise Britain and rip-off the British taxpayer in the furtherance of its and the UNs gobalist projects.

Posted in National News | Comments (41)

