Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_010164.txt

Press Release from Party: LibDem

Watch again: The final televised Leaders' debate

Thu, 29 Apr 2010

Last night saw Nick Clegg go head to head with Gordon Brown and David Cameron in the third and final Leader's Debate broadcast on BBC1.



Last night was the final of the three televised Leaders' debates. Leader of the Liberal Democrats, Nick Clegg, debated with Gordon Brown and David Cameron about the economy. Subjects discussed included breaking up the banks, creating more jobs and reinvigorating the British economy.

If you didn't see the debate last night, you can watch it online here.

Nick Cleggs opening statement 

In his opening statement at the final leaders debate, Liberal Democrat Leader Nick Clegg said:

Tonights debate is about you  about your job, the taxes you pay, your family, the prosperity of our country.
 
We need to do things differently to build a new, stronger, fairer economy.

The way they got us into this mess is not the way out. 
 
So we need to be frank about where cuts are needed  so that we can protect things like schools and hospitals.
 
We need to break up our banking system so that irresponsible bankers can never again put your businesses and your savings at risk.
 
We have to rediscover our passion for innovation, for building things, not just placing bets on the money markets.
 
We need fairer taxes, so that you dont pay any income tax on your first 10,000.
 
Of course, theyll tell you tonight that these things cant be done.
 
But I think weve got to do things differently  to deliver the fairness, the prosperity, the jobs which you and your families deserve.

Nick Cleggs closing statement 

In his closing statement at the final leaders debate, Liberal Democrat Leader Nick Clegg said:

Everything Ive said during these three television debates is driven by my simple belief that if we do things differently this time, we can create a fairer, better Britain.
 
As you decide how to cast your vote, of course youll be told by these two, that real change is dangerous, that it cant be done.
 
Dont let anyone scare you from following your instincts.
 
Together next week we can change Britain for good.
 
Just think how many times youve been given lots of promises by these two old parties  only to discover when they get into Government that nothing really changes.
 
We can do so much better than that this time.
 
Of course I cant guarantee that every problem you face will be solved overnight.
 
But I can guarantee that I will work tirelessly to deliver greater fairness for you.
 
Fairer taxes, so that you pay less but people at the top pay their fair share.

A fair start, smaller class sizes, for your children.

A different approach to the economy.

And open, decent politics which you can trust once again.
 
I believe all this can happen.
 
This is your election. This is your country.

When you go to vote next week, choose the future you really want.
 
If you believe like I do that we can do things differently this time, then together we will really change Britain.
 
Dont let anyone tell you it cant happen. It can.

This time, you can make the difference. 

