Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228060014.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

The Patient's Guarantee

The NHS cannot succeed if those who work within it are not allowed to succeed. Our National Health Service used to be an example to the world. We still have first class doctors and nurses, and many of our hospitals have international reputations for excellence. The clinical judgment of professionals in the NHS is still among the best anywhere.

Yet, immediately on taking office, Labour introduced their Waiting List Initiative which replaced clinical judgment with bogus political priorities.

Immediately on our taking office we will abolish the Waiting List initiative. We will introduce a Patient's Guarantee instead.

The Patient's Guarantee will give patients a maximum waiting time in defined clinical areas, starting with cardiac and cancer services, based on their medical need as assessed by the patient's own consultant. The health authority will be obliged either to treat the patient within that maximum waiting time, or to arrange for the patient to have the choice of being treated in another health authority or in a private hospital.

We will stop politicians interfering in clinical decisions and in the running of hospitals.

The role of the Secretary of State will be to agree funding, and to regulate standards of quality, not to micro-manage hospitals. We will create a properly independent appointments body, and ensure that ministers cannot interfere in its workings, so that people who work in the NHS are chosen because of their expertise, not their politics.

The quality of the care people receive in hospital is determined as much by standards on the ward as by their surgical procedures. Yet while Ward Sisters are held responsible for the well-being of their patients, they do not have authority over many of the activities, such as feeding and cleaning, that determine the quality of the care they provide.

We will require hospitals to give back authority to Ward Sisters, so that they can make sure that their patients get
the care they demand. And we want to bring back Matron so that someone is responsible for overseeing and supporting the nursing staff.

