Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228020001.txt

Party Manifesto: Labour (UK) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Ambitions for Britain.
Labour?s manifesto 2001. 
Fulfilling Britain?s great potential.
The Prime Minister sets out his vision for Britain?s future
Investment and reform
Key measures for public service reform:
1 Prosperity for all.
How we expand our economy and raise our living standards.
2 World-class public services.
How investment and reform will improve public services.
3 A modern welfare state.
How we help people into work and provide security for those who can?t work.
4 Strong and safe communities.
How we tackle crime and renew our society.
5 Britain strong in the world.
How we make foreign policy work for Britain and the wider world.
 The choices for Britain.
A lot done, a lot to do, and a lot to lose.
25 steps to a better Britain.
Our key steps for a second term.

The contract delivered.
How Labour has fulfilled its first-term promises.

This general election is in many ways even more important than the last. Since May 1997 we have laid the foundations of a Britain whose economy is stronger, where investment is now pouring into public services, where social division is being slowly healed and where influence abroad is being regained. But these are only the foundations of larger change. Now is the chance to build the future properly, to make the second term the basis for a radical programme of British renewal: to keep a firm grip on inflation, with low interest rates and the public finances sound, and then build the dynamic and productive economy of the future; to keep investment coming into public services and then making the reforms so we use the money well; to refashion the welfare state on the basis of rights and responsibilities, with people helped to help themselves, not just given handouts; to ensure all families are safe in their communities by tackling crime and its causes; and to give Britain back its leadership role in the world. We need the second term to do all this. That is the choice: to make progress or to dismantle the foundations laid. And with the state of today?s Conservatives, the choice is stark.
This choice will decide whether more people will be able to realise their aspirations for themselves and their children ? to be able to rely on a stable economy where hard work is rewarded by rising living standards, to receive world-class education and healthcare, to enjoy a dignified old age, to feel safe and secure in a strong community, and to be proud to be British. Or whether we will be held back by the traditional British malaise of restricting life?s great opportunities and blessings to a minority.

There is much still to be done, but we have come a long way in four years. Britain stands more prosperous, more equal, more respected. Our country is on a new course.
My passion is to continue the modernisation of Britain in favour of hard-working families, so that all our children, wherever they live, whatever their background, have an equal chance to benefit from the opportunities our country has to offer and to share in its wealth.
The challenge for Britain.
I am honoured to be Prime Minister. And I have a confident belief in our country. We are not boastful. But we have real strengths. Great people. Strong values. 
