Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040123.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Tory Press Becomes Uneasy with Camerons Commitment to Increase Foreign Aid
April 10, 2010

foreign-aid-bnp01Fear of the rising tide of public support for the British National Partys policy of halting foreign aid has driven parts of the Tory press to start questioning David Camerons commitment to increase the Department for International Developments spend from 9.1 billion to 13 billion.

The latest outbreak of nerves has come with an article by James Chapman, deputy political editor of the Tory-supporting rag, the Daily Mail.

According to Mr Chapman, Britain gives around 40 million a year in development cash to China, a country which, he points out, can afford to spend billions on hosting the Olympic Games and is planning to put a man on the moon.

In addition, Mr Chapman, who might have been writing for the BNP website, said that 35 million goes to Uganda, even though its President Museveni has bought himself a new Gulfstream jet for 24 million.

And over the next three years, we will give 825 million in aid to India, a nuclear-armed power and one of the fastest-growing economies in the world, he wrote.

Mr Cameron has issued a green paper on foreign aid in which he has announced that foreign aid is to be ring fenced so that the billions spent on that budget cannot be touched, no matter what other public service cuts are made at home.

This means that China will continue to receive cash from the British taxpayer, even though there are 8 million economically inactive people in Britain crying out for jobs and taxpayers are being plunged into further national debt to pay for foreign aid.

British taxpayers give China around 34.5 million a year to boost schools in China.

According to the World Bank, Chinas Gross Domestic Product was 2.8 trillion in 2008, while Britains GDP is 1.72 trillion  begging the question why British taxpayers give any aid at all to China.

This year, Chinas budget for its army will reach 51.7 billion, and it will spend 1.4 billion on its space exploration programme.

The Conservatives are not alone in wanting to increase the foreign aid budget. The Labour Party has also committed itself to increasing that spend in line with the Tory figures, proving once again that there are few real differences between the Tweedledee and Tweedledum parties.

Only the BNP is fully committed to ending this outrageous swindle and reallocating British tax money so that it is spent on British people first.

Posted in National News | Comments (118)

