Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228060035.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Transport

Labour promised 'immediate benefits' in transport. But public transport has become worse, while our roads are more congested than ever. Britain has the highest road user taxes in Europe and the worst traffic jams. Labour want to force car drivers off the roads, without offering an alternative. They will tax drivers who come into town centres, and tax those who need to park at work.

Last year, Labour took £36 billion from road users but they spent less than £8 billion on transport. Conservatives are not anti-car, but we are anti-pollution, and so we will cut taxes on cleaner fuels and cleaner vehicles.

We will set out long term investment plans for roads and public transport, meeting the needs of commuters, cyclists, pedestrians, and elderly and disabled people. We will establish a new Roads Standards Unit to champion the interests of road users. It will aim to take through traffic out of towns and villages and minimise the environmental effects of roads. It will set sensible speed limits for each stretch of road, and make roads safer.

Unlike Labour, we will not ban people from driving if they marginally exceed the 70mph limit on motorways. Instead we will look to improve the traffic flow on motorways by increasing the speed limit to 80 mph where it is safe to do so, and enforcing this speed limit rigorously. We will target the hard core of bad drivers who are the main cause of accidents.

We will restore the competitiveness of the British haulage, shipping, and aviation industries. We will charge foreign lorries for the use of British roads with our Brit Disc scheme.

We will cut tax on petrol and diesel by 6p per litre. It is technology, not taxation, that cuts pollution from vehicles.

We will revive the railway industry so it achieves airline standards of service and safety. We will stop Labour's policy of blame and shame. We will implement the Cullen Inquiry recommendations. Subject to a 'no strike' deal we will work with Bob Kiley - who transformed the New York subway - and support his ambitions to create a world class London Underground.

