Text ID:
uk_pm_el_83_228020026.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 1983
-------------------------------------

A wider democracy

Labour will take action to enhance democratic rights and ensure greater openness and accountability in the institutions of government. We have set out our policies in Labour's Programme, 1982. We shall:

    Introduce a Freedom of Information Bill, providing for a genuine system of open government and placing the onus on the authorities to justify withholding information.
    Bring in data protection legislation to prevent the abuse of confidential information held on personal files; and, subject to certain exceptions, allow individuals access to their personal records.
    Reform the administration of government and the civil service machine so that it meets modern needs and is properly accountable to elected representatives. We recognise the damage done to the morale and efficiency of the civil service by this government. We will work to repair this damage, together with the unions, and to give proper recognition to the importance of the work of the service.
    Take action to abolish the undemocratic House of Lords as quickly as possible and, as an interim measure, introduce a Bill in the first session of parliament to remove its legislative powers - with the exception of those which relate to the life of a parliament.
    Make improvements in the legislative process and procedures in the House of Commons.
    Reform the procedures for appointments to public bodies to ensure they are more open and genuinely representative of the community.
    Overhaul the outdated honours system.
    Give a new priority to making our public services more responsive to the needs and wishes of those who use them. Wherever possible we will decentralise services to make them as close as possible to those who use them. We will also provide more effective procedures for complaints - with clear rights for users - and ensure better training and status for those in contact with the public. 

Labour believes that state aid for political parties is now essential for the working of our parliamentary democracy. We will introduce such aid, along the lines set out in the Houghton Report, with the funds available adjusted to today's prices and index linked.

The security services

There is now widespread concern about our security services. We intend that they should become properly accountable institutions - and that the civil rights of individuals are fully protected. We outline in Labour's Programme, 1982 our proposals for a new Security Act, to define the powers and responsibilities of the services, including those concerned with the interception of communications. We will also extend parliamentary accountability - including over the accounts of the services - which will be assisted by a new select committee; prohibit, under the Security Act, unauthorised surveillance; and abolish 'D' notices.

