Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228060012.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Less regulation

Regulation is the new way Labour politicians control the economy. Businesses they wouldn't dream of nationalising, they regulate.

It has the same consequences: the judgment of politicians and civil servants is substituted for that of owners and entrepreneurs.

So a Conservative Government will cut the burden of regulation and free businesses to serve their customers rather than serving their regulators.Governments are held to account for the taxpayers' money they spend. We think they should be similarly held responsible for the other costs they impose on businesses. All new regulations will have to be scrutinised by a new Deregulation Commission, which will have the power to send them to Parliament for full debate. And the Commission will calculate, through an independent audit, the cost of government regulations for business. It will then set regulatory budgets for each government department alongside their financial budgets. We will bring these regulatory budgets down, year after year. The burden of regulation has ratcheted up for far too long. We will reverse it.

Small businesses will be exempt from some regulations altogether.

Britain has been ahead of the field in the information economy because we created an environment of low taxes and light regulation. But now we are losing that advantage fast. We don't need more regulations, we need more competition. The utility regulators must focus on competition and address the market dominance of incumbents which stand in the way of competition.

We will abolish Labour's Climate Change Levy package. The necessary carbon dioxide reduction can be achieved far more efficiently by other means. We will also review the future of nuclear energy and its role in contributing to reductions in CO2 emissions.

£8 billion of Conservative savings

Social Security 	£2.5 billion
We will reform welfare to reduce dependency and create a national anti-benefit fraud squad with new powers. 	 
Dept of Environment, Transport & The Regions 	We will abolish regional bureaucracy, cut local government red tape and renovate council housing by transferring it to the voluntary sector.
Dept of Trade & Industry 	£0.3 billion
We will slim down the DTI and improve its effectiveness for business. 	 
Reversing the growth in government bureaucracy 	£1.8 billion
We will return the cost of government to the level at which we maintained it during the last Conservative Government. 	 
Britain Works 	£0.6 billion
We will replace the failing New Deal with Britain Works and contract out the job-finding work of the Employment Service. 	 
Creation of a Community Legal Aid Fund 	£0.3 billion
We will reform legal aid by creating a new Community Legal Aid Fund. In return for financing civil cases, the Fund will receive a portion of the damages when its clients win. 	 
Endowing Universities 	£1.3 billion
We will free universities from reliance on state funding and provide endowments paid for by future asset sales and the reform of student loans. 	 
Endowing Britain's culture 	£0.2 billion
We will privatise Channel 4 and give the money to cultural institutions like museums and galleries so they are more independent of the state. 	 

Total - £8 billion

We will cut taxes on people and businesses and cut government interference and regulation in order to match the competition in the global marketplace.

Five disciplines for a sound economy

The next Conservative Government will operate within a sound and stable financial framework based on five disciplines.

    We will keep the pound. Labour's plan for early entry into the euro is the single biggest threat to our economic stability. By keeping the pound we will keep control of our economic policy, including the ability to set interest rates to suit British economic conditions.
    We will enhance the independence of the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee.
    We will set up a Council of Economic Advisers, which will comment publicly on whether the balance between spending and taxes represents a prudent approach to the national finances, and is helping secure low inflation and low interest rates.
    We will appoint a National Accounts Commission to draw up proper national accounts, including a proper presentation of the Government's long term liabilities.
    We will plot a course away from the direction in which the Chancellor is leading us, and towards real annual increases in spending which are within the trend rate of growth of the economy.

