Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040077.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Turkey Relaxes Visa Entry Requirements for Middle Eastern Nations
March 30, 2010

Layout 1The Tory, Labour and Lib Dem-supported policy of opening the European Union to Turkey has taken on an ominous meaning with the news that the Turkish government has abolished a visa requirement for several Middle Eastern countries, including Syria and Libya.

This means that once Turkey is part of the EU  a move supported by all the Westminster parties  almost the entire Middle East will have legal and visa-free access to Europe, and to Britains welfare system in particular.

Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan made the announcement of the visa relaxation procedures while on a recent visit to Saudi Arabia.

Asked at a press conference if this visa liberalisation would change should Turkey join the EU, Mr Erdogan answered with a quote from the Koran: Strive for what is right, as it (by God) is commanded.

The Greek government has already reported that Turkish military aircraft are interfering with anti-illegal immigration patrols in the Mediterranean.

The Turkish prime ministers evasive answer to the visa question press conference is therefore a clear indication that the Islamic world intends to use the EU as an instrument through which they will conquer Europe by overwhelming the Continent by numbers.

Conservative Shadow minister Michael Gove was exposed last year as the influential guiding hand behind propaganda attempts to get Turkey admitted to the European Union.

Mr Gove, who is Tory Shadow Secretary of State for Children, Schools and Families and MP for Surrey Heath, is one of a cross party group of patrons of a new magazine called Turkey in Europe.

According to the Turkish newspaper Hurriyet Daily News, the magazine was launched on behalf of the patrons of Turkey in Europe who are Michael Gove MP, Dr Denis MacShane MP and Graham Watson MEP.

Mr Macshane is from the Labour Party and Mr Watson is leader of the Liberal Democrats in the European Parliament. Lib Dem MP Edward Davey is also listed as a patron.

The editor of the new magazine, Osman Streater, said that it was established to bring international business together and to promote Turkish membership of the European Union, according to Hurriyet.

He added that Turkey in Europe magazine is independent of the Turkish and UK governments and funded by its members, allowing it to be an independent business-focused voice in support of Turkish membership.

Another Liberal Democrat MP, Edward Davey, spoke at the meeting, saying he hoped the magazine would reach its goal of helping Turkey gain full membership in the EU.

The magazines first issue contains articles in support of Turkeys EU membership by Tony Blair; Conservative Shadow Secretary of State for Defense, Liam Fox; and Labours Minister for Europe at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, Caroline Flint.

Layout 1

Posted in National News | Comments (235)

