Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228020005.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

The Labour Party Manifesto 2010Building the high-growth economy of the future

Growth

The challenge for Britain
To secure the recovery and learn the right lessonsfrom the global economic crisis, laying the foundationsfor sustained growth: reforming banks, modernisinginfrastructure, and as we pay down the deficit,providing the right support to the private sector tobuild a diverse, high-tech industrial economy. The Torieswould threaten recovery with cuts this year, and fail toinvest in our economic future.The next stage of national renewal
• Secure the recovery by supporting the economynow, and more than halve the deficit by 2014 througheconomic growth, fair taxes and cuts to lower priorityspending.• Realise our stakes in publicly controlled banks to securethe best deal for the taxpayer, introduce a new globallevy, and reform the rules for banking to ensure norepeat of past irresponsibility.• Create UK Finance for Growth, bringing £4 billiontogether to provide capital for growing businesses,investing in the growth sectors of the future.• Build a high-tech economy, supporting business andindustry to create one million more skilled jobs andmodernising our infrastructure with High Speed Rail, aGreen Investment Bank and broadband access for all.• Encourage a culture of long-term commitment tosustainable company growth, requiring a super-majorityof two-thirds of shareholders in corporate takeovers.

As the economy steadilyrecovers, there will be no returnto business as usual: financialinstitutions cannot continue thepractices of the past. Radicalchange is needed. Withoutlong-term investment in wealth-creatinginfrastructure andenterprise, accompanied by thediversification of our industrialbase, Britain will not emergefrom the recession ready for astronger, fairer future.The engine of growth is privateenterprise: we will give businessour full support in creatingwealth and jobs. Strong andsustained growth is fundamentalto a credible strategy forkeeping the public finances on astable long-term footing.To be successful, businessneeds stability, but to achievestability after the seismic shockof the global banking crisis, thegovernance of our economicand financial institutions mustbe radically reformed.And to support businessin securing prosperity forfuture generations, an activistindustrial strategy is needed:learning the lessons from thosenations that have succeededin developing advancedmanufacturing and leadingedgeservice industries. Inthese countries the role ofgovernment is not to standaside, but to nurture privatesectordynamism, properlysupporting infrastructure andthe sectors of the future.Securing the recoveryWe have taken the toughdecisions to get Britain throughthe downturn. We have doneso with fairness in mind: wehave not allowed the recessioncreated by the financial crisisto become a depression, or
stood aside and allowed gravedamage to be inflicted on oursociety as it was in the 1930sand 1980s. The Tories arguethat public spending shouldbe cut immediately, but thisposition is out of step with everyother G20 government, rightor left. If governments do notprovide support when familiesand businesses most need help,growth is set back, jobs arelost, and the country builds upmore debts – paying a higherprice in the future. To cut nowwould push the economy backinto recession, not reducing thedeficit but increasing it.We will continue to supportthe economy while growth isstill fragile, sticking with ourtargeted increase in publicspending over the next year tosustain the recovery. Our focusfor the stimulus is strategicinvestment, putting in placethe new digital, transport andenergy infrastructures thatwill support the return tosustainable growth.Deficit reduction and fiscalsustainabilityOnce the recovery is secure,we will rapidly reduce thebudget deficit. We have set outa clear, balanced and fair planto more than halve the deficitover the next four years and wewill stick to it. We will achievethis through a combination of:fair tax increases; a firm gripon public spending includingcuts in lower-priority areas;and strategies for growth thatincrease tax revenues andreduce spending on benefits.Over the next Parliament thestructural deficit will be cut bymore than two-thirds.The huge global recession andour efforts to counter it haverequired us to make toughchoices, including on tax. Wehave made our choice in waysthat put the greatest burdenon those with the broadestshoulders. Bankers havefaced a bonus tax, tax reliefon pensions for the best offwill be reduced, and we haveintroduced a new 50p tax rateon earnings over £150,000. Aspart of our plan to ensure weprotect frontline services whilehalving the deficit over fouryears, we have announced thatNational Insurance will rise byone penny. This will not happenuntil next year, once growthis firmly established. This isthe fairest way to protect keyfrontline services. Our NationalInsurance changes will meanthat no-one earning under£20,000, or any pensioners,will pay more. It is fairer thanalternative options like VAT –which we have not increasedsince 1997. Our commitmentsallow us credibly to deliver ourdeficit reduction plan and tosustain the services that mattermost to families.We will not raise the basic,higher and new top rates oftax in the next Parliament andwe renew our pledge not toextend VAT to food, children’sclothes, books, newspapersand public transport fares. Wewill maintain tax credits, notcut them. And we have madeour choice to protect frontlineinvestment in childcare andschools, the NHS and policing.Tough choicesOn public spending, we will berelentless in making sure thatthe public gets value for moneyfor every pound spent. Wewill overhaul how governmentworks: cutting back-officeand property running costs;abolishing unnecessary armslength-bodies; sharply reducingspending on consultancyand marketing; and cuttinglower-priority spend. We havealready shown in Budget 2010how these steps will help us toachieve savings of £20 billiona year by 2012-13, on top ofthe £15 billion savings that arebeing delivered this year.We will take a tough stanceon public-sector pay, savingover £3 billion by cappingpublic-sector pay rises at
one per cent in 2011-12 and2012-13. We have agreedtough reforms to public-sectorpensions, which will makesignificant savings and ensurethat pensions for the publicsectorworkforce are secure andsustainable in the long term.Any government-controlledappointment involving a salaryover £150,000 will requireministerial sign-off. Savingsfrom our tougher approach willhelp realise a fair rate of payfor all those working for centralgovernment.As we prepare for the upturn,fiscal responsibility andmonetary stability will be thefoundations on which we build.We have made the new fiscalresponsibility framework legallybinding, and we will maintainour inflation target of two percent so that mortgage rates canbe kept as low as possible.Rebuilding our bankingsystemThe international bankingsystem played a key role infuelling the most severe globalrecession since the SecondWorld War. We are determinedto support our financialsector and for it to be a majoremployer and wealth creator,but there will be no return tothe excesses of the past – bankswill face tighter regulation. Thebanking system must supportdomestic businesses, includingstart-ups and entrepreneurs,as well as mortgages. We haveagreed lending targets with thosebanks in which we have a stake,and there will be consequencesfor executive remuneration iftargets are not met.Learning the lessons of thecrisis means ensuring that fargreater responsibility is takenfor risk in the boardroom. Wewill compel banks to keep morecapital and create ‘living wills’so that should they fail therewill be no danger of that failurespreading. Because the bankingcrisis demonstrated the globalnature of financial instability,we will continue to work withour international partners torequire all banks to hold moreand better-quality capital,to ensure counter-cyclicalprotection, and to introduce aglobal levy on financial servicesso that banks across the worldcontribute fairly to the society inwhich they are based.In the UK the new Council forFinancial Stability will monitorand help address asset bubblesand financial imbalances. Wewill give the FSA additionalpowers if necessary toconstrain and quash executiveremuneration where it is asource of risk and instability.If there is evidence of bonusrules being evaded, we will act.We will ensure greatercompetition in the bankingsector, breaking up those banksin which the Governmentcurrently has a controlling stake.The proposed Office of FairTrading review into how Citymarkets operate is welcome.We value the role of buildingsocieties owned by theircustomers and the strength anddiversity that a healthy mutualsector brings to our financialservices, and we will consult onmeasures to help strengthenthe sector. As one option forthe disposal of Northern Rock,we will encourage a mutualsolution, while ensuring that thesale generates maximum valuefor money for the taxpayer.Rebuilding our industrialbase: new industries, newjobs, new knowledgeBritain is the sixth largestmanufacturing economy in theworld. Because of substantialinvestment since 1997, the UKhas an excellent research baseand is already strong in someworld-leading sectors. But if wemake the right decisions as acountry in the coming years –through a new industrial policy,stronger infrastructure and arenewed partnership betweenbusiness and government – we
can be leaders in the emergingindustries of the future.After the financial crisis, we willensure that growing companiescan access the investment theyneed to expand. Finance mustbe at the service of industry,as new public channels arebuilt to deliver private fundsto innovative and fast-growingcompanies. The new UKFinance for Growth Fund willbring together a total of £4billion of public funds andcombine it with private moneyto channel equity to businesseslooking to develop and grow.Within this, the Growth CapitalFund will focus on SMEswhich need capital injections ofbetween £2 and £10 million,while the Innovation InvestmentFund will focus on the needs ofhigh-tech firms.Business investment in physicalcapital will play a key role ina balanced and sustainablerecovery. The StrategicInvestment Fund is supportingimportant new investment inthe nuclear and renewablesindustries. We will provideincentives for companies toinvest through R&D tax credits,and protect and increase thesize of capital allowances thathelp to grow key sectors such asmanufacturing. We will ensure acompetitive regime through thedevelopment of the patent-box– a lower rate of corporationtax to encourage UK-basedinnovation – supporting theUK’s strengths in new industriesand sectors.Investing in science andresearchBritain is among the best placesin the world to do science,having massively increasedinvestment in research anddevelopment as a proportionof national income. We arecommitted to a ring-fencedscience budget in the nextspending review. To help usdo better in turning researchoutputs into innovation,we will provide focusedinvestment for Technology andInnovation Centres, developingtechnologies where the UK hasworld-leading expertise.We will also support universityresearch through the HigherEducation Innovation Fund,and through the developmentof a new University EnterpriseCapital Fund. The proceeds ofsuccess will flow back into thehigher education sector.As we create a more diverseeconomy, we will strengthensupport for exporters to helpus increase our market sharewith our traditional markets inEurope and the United States,while breaking further into theemerging markets of China,India and Brazil.We must seize the opportunityto develop education, inparticular higher education,as a great export business.Universities will be encouragedto develop international linksand research partnerships, andwe want the Open Universityand learndirect to reach theglobal market in distancelearning. We will develop anew gateway for the export ofNHS intellectual property andcutting-edge services.Restoring full employmentWe expect our growingeconomic and sectoralstrengths to create at least onemillion skilled jobs by 2015.These jobs of the future willincreasingly come from thenew growth sectors in whichwe are investing – low-carbon,digital and creative industries,life sciences – and professionalservices in business, healthcareand education.There will be greater prosperityfor every region of the UKeconomy. A regional growthfund will be established bythe Regional DevelopmentAgencies with regional ministersgiven an enhanced role, and wewill help our core cities and cityregions to become powerhouses
of innovation and growth, witha major devolution of power toshape local transport and skills.Championing an enterpriseeconomyAt the heart of our approachto building a strong and fairBritain is a commitment tosupport enterprise. We willback those who want to geton, work their way up, andgenerate wealth. We will keepbusiness taxation competitiveat the same time as we increasecapital allowances to encourageinvestment.There is no substitute forthe drive and ambition thatentrepreneurs bring. We willsupport small businesses andhelp with their cash flow bycontinuing our Time to Payscheme that has already –through tax and NICs deferral– helped thousands of firms;offering a one-year holidayon business rates for smallbusinesses; widening support fortraining and apprenticeships;and in recognising the specialcontribution of entrepreneurswe are doubling theEntrepreneurs Relief lifetimelimit to £2 million.We will also create a new SmallBusiness Credit Adjudicatorwith statutory powers ensuringthat SMEs are not turned downunfairly when applying to banksfor finance.We will help to create a newgeneration of entrepreneurs,ensuring that those studyingfor vocational skills are offeredthe opportunity to learn how tostart and run a business, whilethe Flying Start programmewill do the same for final-yearuniversity students.We will continue to simplifyregulation and avoidunnecessary red tape. If it isused correctly, regulation canhelp drive innovation, as well asprotect workers and consumers.We will seek to reduce the costsof regulation by more than£6 billion by 2015.21st CenturyinfrastructureThe key to creating theindustries of the futureis renewing the nationalinfrastructure on whichfirms rely. To ensure Britain’sinfrastructure needs areproperly resourced, we willwork in partnership withthe private sector, reformingthe regulation of energy toimprove incentives for theprivate sector to invest. We willestablish a Green InvestmentBank to invest in low-carboninfrastructure, with theGovernment’s stake funded bythe sale of infrastructure assets.The Government will seek tomatch its contribution with atleast £1 billion of private-sectorinvestment.The newly formedInfrastructure PlanningCommission will – within ademocratically determinedframework – help streamlineand speed up decision-makingon major projects. We nowpropose to extend the publicinterest test so that it isapplied to potential takeoversof infrastructure and utilitycompanies.Broadband BritainBritain must be a worldleader in the development ofbroadband. We are investingin the most ambitious plan ofany industrialised country toensure a digital Britain for all,extending access to every homeand business. We will reach thelong-term vision of superfastbroadband for all through apublic-private partnershipin three stages: first, givingvirtually every household in thecountry a broadband service ofat least two megabits per secondby 2012; second, makingpossible superfast broadbandfor the vast majority of Britain
in partnership with privateoperators, with Governmentinvesting over £1 billion in thenext seven years; and lastlyreaching the final ten per centusing satellites and mobilebroadband.Because we are determinedthat every family and business,not just some, should benefit,we will raise revenue to payfor this from a modest levyon fixed telephone lines. Andwe will continue to work withbusiness, the BBC and otherbroadcasting providers toincrease take-up of broadbandand to ensure Britain becomes aleading digital economy.Rebuilding our transportinfrastructureBritain needs to invest inmodern, high-capacity and low-carbontransport infrastructure.At the heart of our growthplan is the commitment toa new high-speed rail line,linking North and South. Builtin stages, the initial line willlink London to Birmingham,Manchester, the East Midlands,Sheffield and Leeds, and thento the North and Scotland.By running through-trainsfrom day one, cities includingGlasgow, Edinburgh, Newcastleand Liverpool will also be partof the initial network. Journeytimes will be slashed – thosefrom the West Midlands toLondon will be as little as31 minutes. We will consult fullyon legislation to take forwardour high-speed rail plans withinthe next Parliament.High-speed rail is not justabout faster journey times.It will free up capacity onexisting intercity rail lines,enabling more rail freight,commuter and local servicesWe will press ahead with amajor investment programmein existing rail services, hugelyimproving commuter servicesinto and through London,and electrifying new rail-linesincluding the Great WesternMain Line from London toSouth Wales. We will completethe new east-west Crossrail linein London adding ten per centto London transport capacity.Rail passenger numbershave increased by 40 percent in the last ten years andpunctuality and quality ofservice are improving steadily.We will encourage morepeople to switch to rail withan enforceable right to thecheapest fare, while treblingthe number of secure cycle-storagespaces at rail stations.We will welcome rail franchisebids from not-for-profit, mutualor co-operative franchiseenterprises and will look toremove unfair barriers thatprevent such bids benefitingpassengers and taxpayers.Tackling road congestion is akey Labour priority. We willextend hard-shoulder runningon motorways, alongsidetargeted motorway wideningincluding on the M25. Toomuch disruption is causedby local road works: we willincrease tenfold the penaltieson utilities who allow workto overrun. We rule out theintroduction of national roadpricing in the next Parliament.Heathrow is Britain’sinternational hub airport,already operating at fullcapacity, and supportingmillions of jobs, businesses andcitizens who depend upon it.We support a third runwayat Heathrow, subject to strictconditions on environmentalimpact and flight numbers, butwe will not allow additionalrunways to proceed at any otherairport in the next Parliament.Through our investment,Labour has put Britain at theforefront of electric and low-carbonvehicle manufacturing.To promote the rapid take-upof electric and low-carboncars, we will ensure thereare 100,000 electric vehiclecharging points by the end ofthe next Parliament.

Corporate governancereform
To build strong businesseswe need skilled managers,accountable boards, andcommitted shareholders– all with a culture of longtermcommitment. We willstrengthen the 2006 CompaniesAct where necessary betterto reflect these principles.The UK’s Stewardship Codefor institutional shareholdersshould be strengthened andwe will require institutionalshareholders to declare howthey vote and for banks to puttheir remuneration policiesto shareholders for explicitapproval.Too many takeovers turn outto be neither good for theacquiring company or the firmbeing bought. The system needsreform. Companies should bemore transparent about theirlong-term plans for the businessthey want to acquire. Thereneeds to be more disclosure ofwho owns shares, a requirementfor bidders to set out howthey will finance their bidsand greater transparency onadvisers’ fees.There should be a higherthreshold of support – two-thirdsof shareholders – forsecuring a change of ownershipand the case for limiting votesto those on the register beforethe bid should be examined.Creating a shareholdingsocietyWe want Britain’s workers tohave a stake in their companyby widening share ownershipand creating more employee-ownedand trust-ownedbusinesses. We want to seea step change in the role ofemployee-owned companies inthe economy, recognising thatmany entrepreneurs wouldlike to see their companies inthe hands of their employeeswhen they retire. We will reviewany outstanding barriers to theformation of more employee-companieslike the John LewisPartnership.

