Text ID:
uk_pm_el_83_228020010.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 1983
-------------------------------------

Energy

Energy is vital to our future as an industrial nation. We will plan its supply and demand more carefully and save more of the energy we use. As outlined in Labour's Programme 1982, we will:

    Ensure that everyone can afford adequate heat and light at home.
    Give priority to the coal industry and the use of coal as a fuel. We will seek to re-establish the tripartite machinery set up under Labour and prepare a new Plan for Coal. We will also replace old plant with coal-fired stations.
    Assist major towns and cities to set up combined heat and power schemes.
    Begin a massive conservation programme, led by insulation for council housing, and giving incentives to industry on agreed plans to save energy. The programme will be managed by a new Energy Conservation Agency.
    Greatly increase spending on the development of renewable sources.
    Stop Sizewell and scrap the Tory PWR programme. The need for a continuing nuclear programme based on the British AGR will be reassessed when we come to office.
    Re-establish the Energy Commission to advise on the preparation and annual review of a comprehensive energy plan.
    Transfer the whole of the National Nuclear Corporation to the public sector. 

Energy costs now represent a major part of family budgets. We will aim to reduce these costs, both by conservation and by introducing new fuel allowances.

We will bring Britoil back into public ownership and combine it with BNOC to create a powerful national oil corporation with full powers to engage in all aspects of oil-related activities. We will restore to the new corporation a minimum 50 per cent stake in all fields discovered since 1975; and, in line with our objective to bring North Sea oil into public ownership and control, the public sector will have the dominant role in all future oil and gas exploration and development in the North Sea. We reaffirm our commitment to achieving full public control and ownership of British Petroleum, in order to make it an effective agent of a nationally directed oil policy.

