Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228010020.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

Reviving Rural Communities

Our policy for the coutnryside aims both to protect Britain's natural environment and to recreate success in one of Britain's greatest industries, agriculture. The farming industry is passing through a period of profound change; most farmers recognise that the industry must achieve a better balance with the market and the environment. We will help this transition by:

    Working for fundamental reform of the Common Agricultural Policy. We want to ease the adjustment from the present price support mechanism towards market prices and direct support aimed at assisting the farming industry in transition and at environmental and social goals. These will be funded by savings made out of the present intervention mechanisms of the CAP.
    New incentive payments for environmental objectives, in particular for extensifying food production (using land less intensively), and reduced-input and organic farming. Countryside Management Agreements, described above, will be a key feature in this shift of CAP resources from price support to environmental goals.
    Reformed systems of direct support, aimed in particular at helping family farms and crofts.
    Introducing renewable limited-term tenancies for agricultural land, encouraging new entrants to farming. We will encourage local councils to continue to provide smallholdings and to introduce part-time holdings for new entrants.
    Expanding Forestry. We support the long-term aim of doubling the area of the UK under forestry, but this must include a higher proportion of broad-leafed hardwoods. We oppose the privatisation of the Forestry Commission. We will create more community forests near large towns.
    Encouraging fishing and fish farming. We will improve the Government's decommissioning proposals and appraise, with the industry, effective technical conservation measures. We should move towards fisheries licensing and management on a more regional basis to help traditional fishing communities and protect those who fish sustainably, such as mackerel handliners. We will transfer full planning responsibility for fish farming to local authorities, and we will increase research into the environmental aspects of fish farming and diversification. We will work with the EC to counter the dumping of stocks into the Community.
    The extension of Rural Development Agencies. These will be responsible for coordinating development and diversification, in partnership with local authorities, the private and voluntary sectors and local communities.
    Tougher action on food safety. We will transfer responsibility for food standards from the Ministry of Agriculture to a new Food and Drugs Commission. We will bring in much tighter labelling requirements for all foods, and make funding available for food research and scientific establishments. We will improve consumer representation on government advisory committees.

