Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_060063.txt

Press Release from Party: Con

News story
Big Society versus Big Government
Monday, April 19 2010
David Cameron (Photo credit: Andrew Parsons)

Speaking to small business leaders in south London, David Cameron has set out the choice between Big Society and Big Government.

Cameron said he was going to "redouble the positive" in the election campaign. "I am going to accentuate everything positive we want to bring to this country, I am going to make sure everything we do is about the positive vision we have for the future of our country".

The election is now about "who can actually deliver the change that the country wants, who can get the job done, who can make sure that change will actually happen if you put that cross in the box on May 6th, and that is what the Conservatives offer".

That change, he said, is based on a "really big and different idea"- the Big Society. "For decades, politicians in this country have basically been treating the British public like a bunch of mugs".

"Politicians have been saying to you: just give us a little bit more of your money, just let us pass one more law, let us just pass one more regulation, one more little order from on high, and suddenly we will solve all of the country's problems.  It's a big lie. It doesn't work."

"The old top-down, big-government approach has failed in Britain", he said, adding that even if you still believe in it there isn't any government money left to try it with: "Gordon spent it all, it's all gone".

"So we need something different, and that is where our big idea comes in. The idea of building the Big Society, the idea of saying: if you want change, then we have all got to pull together, work together, come together, recognise we're all in this together, and that's how you get change."

Cameron also spoke about how much he admires small businesses, and how they themselves are a key part of the Big Society.

"It's not just that you are going to provide the wealth and the jobs and the enterprise of the future, which you are; it's not just that social enterprises are going to tackle so many of the big social problems we've got in our country."

"It's also because what you have done in your lives I think emphasises the most important value in our country of all and it's a word that's missing from this election, and that word is responsibility. You decided to take responsibility for yourself, to start something for yourself that contributes to our bigger economy and our bigger society."

Click here to read David's speech in full
Go to news

    Subscribe
    Print



