Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040154.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Never Mind the Liars, Here Is the BNP: Britains Population to Top 77 Million by 2060
April 19, 2010

The liars of all three Tweedledee Tweedledum parties continue to ignore the reality that all serious projections show that, given current immigration and immigrant reproduction rates, Britains population will reach 77 million by 2060.

This projection was first made by a European Union report issued in 2008, and the only change since then has been a steady increase in immigration which will make the time frame even shorter.

The projected population figures make a mockery of the feigned concern by those in power in response to voters anxiety about the unsustainable population in Britain.

Home Secretary Alan Johnson disingenuously stated last year that he did not lose sleep over the prospect of the UK population reaching 70 million by 2028  when he already knew that our population would eventually surpass that number.

Successive Conservative and Labour governments have supported the solution of mass immigration as an answer to an ageing population while ignoring the fact that immigrants age as well.

They have also avoided the fact that immigrants have driven wages down. This makes the theory of immigration supporting the benefits system impossible as lower incomes means lower tax and puts an intolerable burden on the benefits system.

Desperate to hide the results of their gross economic mismanagement and in pursuit of perverse ideologies, these old-gang parties have attempted to conceal the disastrous impact of these policies.

Gordon Browns 1997 raid on Britains flourishing private pension funds revealed his arrogance, despotic hunger for power and absence of morality, and is a prime example of economic mismanagement and financial incompetence.

With the resultant collapse of these funds, the pensioners who had invested in them were forced to turn to the state for support, therefore increasing the costs to the taxpayer.

Britain is already one of the most densely populated countries on earth, with a tiny land mass and limited natural resources, yet the Tweedledee and Tweedledum parties seem to think that life will be enriched by such a high population.

Buffeted by the vast wealth acquired through their manipulation of expenses and by using their contacts made while in power, the politicians responsible for this catastrophe wont have to live with the consequences of their shameful betrayal.

The Britain that the other parties has planned for us will see a massive 25 percent increase in our population, a country covered by roads and houses, constant high unemployment, high taxation, an unaffordable benefits system, unbelievable traffic congestion and endless shortages of power, water and food.

A population of 77 million will be unsustainable in terms of food production, and leading hydrologists are already warning that Britain could soon be facing severe water shortages.

In this new Britain, the indigenous people will be a minority, and as their numbers decline in relation to the overall population, so their cultural influence will be smothered by the Third World cultures of what will become the majority population.

The benefits system created by the Christian ethos of the indigenous people will disappear to be replaced by the situation prevalent in the Third World  millions living in abject poverty with no care provided for the sick and elderly while the wealthy elite live remote lives of luxury.

This destruction of Britain and her people has been driven by the pursuit of failed ideologies, shameful arrogance, appalling incompetence and criminal greed by the very parties who now cynically suggest that they have the solutions to the devastation that their policies have caused  and hope that they can fool the British voters once again.

The British National Party has common sense policies designed to represent the British people and their interests, and to repair the rampant destruction caused to our country.

The BNP will halt immigration and remove those who should not be here, thereby freeing British jobs so that they can be filled by British workers. This will also remove the burden placed by low skilled immigrants on our benefits system.

By reducing Britains unnaturally inflated population, the BNP will restore sanity and prosperity to our country, enabling the British people to survive in their own homeland.

Posted in ENVIRONMENT, IMMIGRATION, National News | Comments (121)

