Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040093.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Leading Economists Warn: Manufacturing Base Essential to Economic Recovery
April 3, 2010

closed-down-factoryTwo leading economists have warned that Britain will not recover from the recession unless urgent action is taken to rebuild and protect the manufacturing industry  precisely what the British National Party has been saying all along.

In a new booklet, Prospects for the UK Balance of Payments, published by think tank Civitas, University of Cambridge economists Ken Coutts and Robert Rowthorn warn that no nation can continuously run large current account deficits because of the resulting growth of foreign debt.

Sooner or later some form of adjustment will be required, a press release from Civitas says.

The UK economy has become dangerously unbalanced as we have put too much faith in finance at the expense of manufacturing, Civitas said.

Professors Coutts and Rowthorn recommend tackling the deficit with policies designed to boost UK trade performance and in particular assigning a central role to manufacturing.

According to the academics, a sound balance of payments is required for national solvency.  The picture revealed is bleak; they fear that the UKs current account deficit could steadily deteriorate from under 2 percent of GDP to almost 5 percent by 2020.

A deficit of this magnitude is not sustainable and, if unchecked, will lead to a painful adjustment involving lost output and higher unemployment.

The work calls for industrial and other policies to improve UK trade performance, above all in manufacturing, but also in knowledge-intensive services (communications, consultancy, research and development, media etc). It also points out the need to safeguard Londons role as a global financial centre.

In 1950 this country was a great industrial power with more than a third of its labour force employed in the manufacturing sector and a further million in coal mining, the professors wrote.

There was a trade surplus in manufactured goods equal to 10 percent of GDP and the country was a net exporter of energy. Since then, employment in the manufacturing sector has shrunk dramatically and coal mining has almost disappeared.

There is now a trade deficit in manufactured goods equal to 4 percent of GDP and, after an interlude following the discovery of North Sea oil, the UK is now a large net importer of energy.

There is a widespread feeling that something has gone wrong, that the economy has become dangerously unbalanced, and we have put too much faith in finance at the expense of manufacturing and other activities, they continued.

The relentless deterioration in the balance of payments that occurs under the base projection is not sustainable. Given the orders of magnitude involved, any policy for dealing with the emerging balance of payments deficit must assign a central role to manufacturing.

Only the BNP has highlighted this fact and made it a central part of its economic recovery policy.

According to the BNPs official policy statement on the economy, Britains survival depends on a technology-intensive manufacturing base, protected from globalisation and rampant internationalist exploitation  the core of the British National Partys plan for rebuilding this nations economy after decades of Tory and Labour neglect.

Globalisation has caused the export of jobs and industries to the Far East, and has brought ruin and unemployment to British industries and the communities who depend on them.

Accordingly, the BNP calls for the selective exclusion of foreign-made goods from British markets and the reduction of foreign imports. We will ensure that our manufactured goods are, wherever possible, produced in British factories, employing British workers.

When this is done, unemployment in this country will be brought to an end and secure, well-paid employment will flourish.

The Civitas booklet can be downloaded free as a PDF file by clicking here.

Posted in National News | Comments (84)

