Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228010058.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

A Decent Living Environment

The quality of life for all people depends very much on their surroundings – the quality and cost of their housing, the fabric of nearby buildings, and their natural surroundings. To promote a clean and healthy living environment we will:

    Promote decent and more affordable housing. We will open up conveyancing to greater competition, take action to tackle gazumping, strengthen leaseholders’ legal rights, involve tenants in the management of housing estates, and protect tenants against misuse of rent deposits. We will allow local authorities to specify the percentage of social housing for all new developments. We will aim to provide lifetime homes and make sure that building regulations provide for flexibility to undertake low-cost conversion for wheelchair access, fittings, showers and stair lifts. We will give local councils the power to end the 50% rebate on council tax for second homes.

    Combat homelessness by giving local authorities greater freedom to invest in housing, and by making health authorities responsible for ensuring that patients discharged into the community have somewhere to live. We will increase the availability of affordable housing by taking action to require public and private landlords to bring empty homes back into use. We will make renovation a more affordable option by equalising VAT at a lower level to be charged equally on new build and refurbishment costs.

    Protect greenfield sites and encourage urban regeneration through partnership between local authorities and private enterprise, and our reform of the VAT system. In addition to an immediate cut in business rates through a Business Rate Allowance, we will also allow local councils to replace the Uniform Business Rate with a system based on the value of each site (Site Value Rating). This would encourage rather than penalise those who develop inner-city sites. We will also clean up brownfield and damaged wildlife sites using revenue from a greenfield development levy set by local authorities.

    Require mobile phone companies to obtain local planning permission for all new mobile phone mast installations.

    Establish effective measurement of living costs throughout the country. We want to ensure that public service workers like teachers and nurses are properly supported when they live in expensive areas. We will therefore collect data on price variations between regions so that measures can be effectively targeted.

Setting You Free

    Lessen central controls on fishing by reforming the Common Fisheries Policy to promote local management of fisheries.

    Reduce red tape for farmers through single Countryside Management Contracts to manage farm payments, and an Agricultural Ombudsman to tackle maladministration.

    Put local priorities first in planning regeneration schemes so that communities develop according to the aspirations of those that live there.

