Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040102.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Millions More Wasted: Governments Prevent Strategy in Tatters
April 5, 2010

eddy-butler (2)A Parliamentary committee has warned that the Governments strategy for dealing with Muslim extremists and terrorism is badly compromised, has wasted millions of pounds, and that it was difficult to see if it had done any good whatsoever.

According to the committee, some 54 million has been wasted between 2007 and 2010, with a further 24 million earmarked for 20102011.

This Danegeld is thrown at local community groups in the hope that it will turn people away from the clutches of groups linked to al-Qaeda, said the British National Partys former national organiser and 2010 candidate, Eddy Butler.

At this years British National Partys Organisers Conference (held in Hertfordshire in January), Mr Butler announced that the party would be fully engaging with the Prevent strategy.

The Prevent strategy is part of a wider anti-terrorist strategy called Contest. The Government has a mania for giving its strategies these catchy names and dreaming up slogans to go with them as an alternative to real and effective action, Mr Butler explained.

The Contest strategy is split into four sub strategies as follows.

Pursue: Stop terrorist attacks.

Prevent: Stop people from becoming terrorists or supporting violent extremism.

Protect: Strengthen UKs protection against terror attacks.

Prepare: Improve resilience and reduce impact of attacks which cannot be stopped.

The second strategy, Prevent, is called in full Preventing Violent Extremism.

The Prevent strategy is supposed to be implemented by local councils and indeed Building Resilience to Violent Extremism is a key national indicator against which councils are measured by the Audit Commission as part of their Comprehensive Performance Assessment, by which councils are graded, Mr Butler said.

This is where the trouble started. Many councils are ideologically incapable of operating a policy where they have to scrutinise local Moslem communities and turn them away from extremist clerics and al-Qaeda linked groups.

These councils are more worried about alienating potential terrorists than in combating the terrorist threat, he continued.

In response to this, the Government backed down and declared that the Prevent strategy wasnt just aimed at Muslim extremists (as they did not want to alienate their voter base) but was aimed at all extremists.

To even things up they would in particular investigate right-wing extremism and use the funds allocated to the strategy to turn people away from what they describe as racist and fascist groups.

Now, most of us will wonder why we have not heard about any terrorist outrages perpetrated by violent extremist racist and fascist groups in Britain. The answer is that there have been no such incidents beyond a minuscule few misfits, Mr Butler said.

However, in their report on the matter the Government highlighted the fact that last years European elections showed that there are around 100 wards in the country at risk from the British National Party.

The risk posed by the British National Party had nothing to do with violence but everything to do with legitimate electoral success; in other words, BNP candidates taking these wards by the ballot box from Labour.

The Government disgracefully abandoned its anti-terrorist strategy in order to corruptly pander to its overriding politically correct prejudices and focus instead on using state funds against an opposition political party.

As a result, at the Organisers Conference, the partys local representatives had been tasked with derailing  this naked misuse of Government power by fully engaging with local Prevent Strategies.

Our branches are essential parts of all local communities in which they operate. By engaging with the strategy, we would reinvigorate it and turn it back to its original and correct purpose: the prevention of violent Islamist extremism.

No other group in British society better appreciates and understands the threat of Islamism than the BNP, so we would have a vital role to play in ensuring that the threat is minimised, he continued.

The far left Communist Party front organisations and their comrades in the controlled pro-Government media latched onto this and claimed last month that the BNP wanted to derail the entire anti-terrorist strategy.

As we have seen, the Government perverted its original Prevent strategy so that it had nothing to do with fighting the genuine causes of violent extremism and rooting out the breeding grounds for terrorism within these shores.

It was the BNP which wanted to turn the strategy back to its original and useful purpose.

The latest Parliamentary review of the Prevent strategy may well be the final nail in the coffin for this lacklustre and rather pathetic attempt to prevent future terrorist outrages in Britain.

We can expect nothing better from either the Conservatives or the Liberal Democrats, both of whom are similarly bound by political correctness and are incapable of taking the action necessary to provide domestic security.

We can expect nothing more from this Government which puts its own squalid self-interests before the security and safety of law-abiding citizens.

We can take satisfaction that yet again the Governments politically motivated initiatives aimed against the BNP to curry favour with its own voter base have spectacularly misfired.

However, this is gained at the cost of the security of our fellow citizens. Quite literally the lives of our people are not safe in this Governments hands, Mr Butler concluded.

Posted in National News | Comments (48)

