Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040050.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


COE Covers up Its Own Child Abuse  But Condemns BNP
March 23, 2010

coe-child-abuse

Should the Church of England (COE) not be more concerned with condemning and investigating decades of child abuse within its ranks rather than attacking the British National Party?

This is the question observers have asked after the COEs Bishop of Chelmsford yesterday engaged in yet another bout of anti-BNP hysteria in the media.

The Bishops outburst came just a day after the pope issued an apology, of sorts, to the many victims of child abuse at the hands of pervert priests in Ireland.

It might have been reasonably presumed that in the light of the popes message, the Bishop of Chelmsford would have joined in and apologised for the foul vein of paedophilia that has for decades run through the COE.

Yet, for reasons unexplained, the bishop did not take advantage of the occasion either to condemn child abuse in the COE or apologise for that institutions cover-up of child abuse cases.

The scandal of child abuse within the COE was exposed in an October 2007 article in the Daily Telegraph. Under the heading, C of E child abuse was ignored for decades, the article said that child abuse has gone unchecked in the Church of England for decades amid a cover-up by bishops.

Information that could have prevented abuse has been lost or damaged, concerns about individuals have been ignored and allegations have not been recorded. It means that the Church has no idea how many paedophiles are in its midst, the article said.

A solicitor who has specialised in child abuse cases said that the Church of Englands mistakes amounted to an appalling, shocking level of negligence that is likely to leave it open to claims from victims who have been too afraid to speak out in the past.

The article appeared following a series of high profile COE child abuse cases which included that of the jailing of the Rev David Smith, formerly vicar of St John the Evangelist Church in Clevedon, Somerset, for grooming and molesting six vulnerable youngsters.

Is it any wonder that the Christian church in general and the Church of England in particular is in terminal decline when its leaders spend more of their time dabbling in party politics instead of  providing moral leadership?

Posted in National News | Comments (128)

