Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_010063.txt

Press Release from Party: LibDem

 LD2010 Issue Six: Budget 2010 and the Chancellors' debate

Fri, 26 Mar 2010

News on the forthcoming Chancellors' debate and full coverage of Nick Clegg and Vince Cable's response to the Budget, as well as one of our excellent candidates standing in the upcoming election.




The Budget was a political dodge not an economic plan

This week the government outlined the budget for 2010, both Nick and Vince responded saying, Labour is in denial, while the Conservatives are talking tough to cover up that they only offer more of the same. Nick called for greater honesty on the state of the economy and promised that the Liberal Democrats would remain faithful to their promises of fair taxes for all. You can read Nick's response in the chamber here and watch Vinces video reaction here. Read more >


Chancellors' Debate Night

This coming Monday will see the first of the televised election debates. Vince Cable will face Alistair Darling and George Osborne at 8pm on Channel 4.

We want you to be part of it, watch the live debates and get involved online. Following a busy Budget week, now is the time to see the mettle of the three Chancellors head-to-head.

You can find out more on Facebook and Act and use the hashtag #goVince when tweeting.

There is still time for you to post a question which could be asked during the live debate. Find out more here >




Nick Clegg calls for cross-party Council of Financial Stability

Nick Clegg this week called for a cross-party Council of Financial Stability to agree the timetable and scale of deficit reduction.

Read more >

Labour and Conservatives fail to back lobbying reform

Labour and the Tories claim they want to clean up politics but the reality proves different, said the Liberal Democrat Shadow Leader of the House this week.

Read more >

Lib Dems will help 1m disabled people with their fuel bills

This week Steve Webb set out plans to extend the Winter Fuel Payment to up to 1 million people with severe disabilities and terminal illness.

Read more >











