Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228060015.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Choice for GPs and patients

One of the best ways of improving the performance of the NHS is to give patients choice.

When Labour were elected they limited GPs' freedom to refer patients to the hospital of their choice.

We will give back to patients and their doctors the power to choose.

Patients will be able to be treated in the hospital which they and their GPs choose, and will have full access to information on hospitals'waiting lists and success rates to enable them to make that choice.

Hospitals will be rewarded for the operations they carry out, so that good hospitals can attract more patients and more funding, and patients will be able to choose to be treated in hospitals with world-class expertise in their illness.

We will allow alternative and complementary therapies to be made available through the NHS, provided they are of proven clinical effectiveness.

We will give doctors the right to decide how they organise themselves to deliver the best care to their patients.

GPs have told us that they don't want a new upheaval in primary care: we will follow their advice. Instead, we will give GPs the choice of whether to operate as Primary Care Trusts if they think that is right for themselves and their patients. And we will encourage GPs to specialise, so that GP teams will be increasingly able to offer expert diagnosis and treatment to their patients. That way, many patients will get expert opinions and care by doctors they know, without the need to go to hospital.

Choice for patients extends to private healthcare.

Because of the problems in the health service many people with modest incomes spend their hard-earned savings on paying privately for operations or for medical insurance for themselves and their families. In doing so, they free resources in the NHS and help reduce waiting times, but often at considerable personal cost.

The Conservative Party is committed to a comprehensive NHS free to all its users. There is no question of anyone being forced to take out private insurance. But if people do choose to insure themselves privately they should not be penalised for making this choice.

Labour imposes a tax penalty on employers who offer their employees private medical insurance, and then taxes again any employee who has this benefit. It doesn't make sense and, when affordable, we will abolish both taxes.

"We will stop politicians from interfering in clinical decisions and in the running of hospitals."

We will ensure hospices are properly funded by increasing the state's contribution from 32% to 40% for adult hospices and from 4% to 40% for children's hospices.

