Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228060072.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

AGRICULTURE

Centuries of farming have shaped our countryside. Now farming is at a crossroads, both here and in the rest of the European Community World-wide pressure to reduce protectionist measures, and the need to contain the cost of the Common Agricultural Policy, mean that farmers will face reduced support and increased competition.

We believe that farming in the UK can meet these challenges. But many farmers will need help to adapt to the new conditions, and we will continue to provide assistance.

It will become increasingly important for farmers to obtain a greater proportion of their income from the market. We will encourage farmers, retailers and manufacturers to work together to increase our share of the European food market.

We are committed to reducing the burden of regulation on business in general, and farming in particular. We will not accept UK farmers being put at a disadvantage by EC laws being applied differently in other countries.

Responsible farmers have always combined efficient farming with care for the countryside. We will continue to encourage this approach through schemes to protect landscape and habitats of special importance. We will also maintain direct support for farming in the Less Favoured Areas in ways which encourage good environmental practice

    We will seek a reform of the CAP which brings agriculture closer to the market; reduces the costs to taxpayers and consumers; is implemented at a pace which the industry can bear; affects all Community farmers equitably, regardless of size or location; and recognises the importance of environmental protection.
    We will build on the producer marketing initiatives which we have already launched, including the Group Marketing Grant.
    We will assist the Milk Marketing Board's move to a new structure which will be better able to protect the interests of producers and consumers in the Single Market.
    We will publish target response times for grant and licence applications made to the Ministry of Agriculture.
    We will take forward proposals for radical liberalisation of the agricultural tenancy laws in order to make more land available for rent, especially for new entrants.
    We will enforce effective pollution control regulations while helping farmers to meet the high standards required.
    We will press for an agreement in the EC's Agricultural Council which will allow us to provide financial encouragement for organic agriculture. 

