Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060022.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

change society | MAKE BRITAIN THE MOST FAMILY-FRIENDLY COUNTRY IN EUROPE

Make Britain the most family-friendly country in Europe
We will make Britain the most family-friendly country in Europe. We will support families in thetax and benefits system, extend flexible working and improve parental leave. We will help parentscope with the commercialisation of childhood and give families more control over their lives.We will support and improve Sure Start, and introduce a new universal health visiting service.We will give targeted help to disadvantaged and dysfunctional families.

Strong families are the bedrock of a strongsociety. They provide the stability and lovewe need to flourish as human beings, and therelationships they foster are the foundation onwhich society is built. The warmth of a child’sparenting is as important to their life chances asthe wealth of their upbringing.Labour’s complacent attitude to commitmenthas done untold harm, and their narrowapproach ignores the importance ofstrengthening the relationships betweenall family members – children, parents,grandparents and the wider family. As a result,Britain is one of the least family-friendlycountries in the world.This will change with a Conservativegovernment. We will help families with all thepressures they face: the lack of time, moneyworries, the impact of work, concerns aboutschools and crime, preventing unhealthyinfluences, poor housing. We will not be neutralon this. Britain’s families will get our fullbacking across all our policies.

Reform tax and benefits to helpfamilies and pensioners
Today, Labour’s tax and benefits systemrewards couples who split up. A Conservativegovernment will end the couple penalty forall couples in the tax credit system as we makesavings from our welfare reform plans. Wewill recognise marriage and civil partnershipsin the tax system in the next Parliament. Thiswill send an important signal that we valuecouples and the commitment that people makewhen they get married.To help Britain’s families further, aConservative government will freeze counciltax for two years, in partnership with localcouncils. This will be paid for by reducingspending on government consultants andadvertising, and could save families andpensioners up to £219 over two years on aBand D bill. We will also scrap Labour’splans for an expensive and intrusive counciltax revaluation.
We support tax credits and will continue toprovide the range of tax credits to families,although we can no longer justify payingtax credits to households earning more than£50,000. We will reform the administration oftax credits to reduce fraud and overpayments,which hit the poorest families hardest.We strongly value the role older people play infamilies and in society, and will not let themsuffer because of the economic mistakes ofothers. That is why we have made a pledgeto pensioners to re-link the basic state pensionto earnings, and protect:• the winter fuel payment;• free bus passes;• free TV licences;• disability living allowance and attendanceallowance; and,• the pension credit.Give families more control overtheir livesMaking Britain more family-friendly meanshelping families spend more time together.That is why we will initially extend the right torequest flexible working to every parent witha child under the age of eighteen. We want ourgovernment to lead from the front, so we willextend the right to request flexible working toall those in the public sector, recognising thatthis may need to be done in stages. In addition,we will:• in the longer term, extend the right to requestflexible working to all, but only in the lightof experience and after full consultationwith business on how to do this in a waywhich is administratively simple and withoutburdening them with extra costs; and,• oblige JobCentre Plus offices to ask employersif their vacancies could be advertised on apart-time or flexible basis.We will introduce a new system of flexibleparental leave which lets parents share maternityleave between them, while ensuring that parentson leave can stay in touch with their employer.We support the provision of free nursery care forpre-school children, and we want that supportto be provided by a diverse range of providers.A Conservative government will review theway the childcare industry is regulated andfunded to ensure that no providers, includingchildminders, are put at a disadvantage.To give families more control over their lives,we will put funding for relationship supporton a stable, long-term footing and make surecouples are given greater encouragement to useexisting relationship support. We will reviewfamily law in order to increase the use ofmediation when couples do break up, and lookat how best to provide greater access rightsto non-resident parents and grandparents.

Protect childhood
