Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_050034.txt

Press Release from Party: Greens

"After decades of delay, we need real movement on climate change: Johnson

26 April 2010

Darren Johnson, the Green Party's spokesperson on trade and industry and one of the party's target candidates in the 6 May election, today took part in a live televised debate on the BBC Daily Politics show alongside Ed Miliband for Labour, Greg Clark for the Conservatives and Liberal Democrat Simon Hughes. 

Darren, Green Party parliamentary candidate for Lewisham Deptford, said:

"We would create a 44 billion investment programme which would tackle the twin issues of the environment and the economy at the same time, creating one million new jobs, offering free insulation and investment in renewable energy (1).

"Rather than the costs for investment in renewable energy falling on consumers as they would under Labour, the Green Party would scrap Trident, saving 78 billion of tax payers money.

"We would also introduce radical tax reform, meaning that the wealthy would pay more towards funding the public spending programme. We are the only party that would put forward this large scale public investment.

"We would also scrap the 30 billion put aside by the Labour Government for road building schemes, and instead invest the money into improving public transport, making it easier and less expensive for people who want to leave their cars at home.

"After decades of delay, we need real movement on climate change - not just lip service."

The government targets for reducing carbon emissions are currently a reduction of 34 per cent by 2020, and 80 per cent by 2050.

Commenting on this after the debate, Darren said:

"These figures are woefully inadequate. When you look at what the science says, a reduction of 90 per cent by 2030 is needed if we are to properly tackle the risk of run away climate change.

"We are facing the biggest global threat we have ever had to come to terms with, and the other parties are burying their heads in the sand." 

Darren continued:

"The Lib Dems say they support green measures in their manifesto but when it comes to action they have campaigned against new tram schemes, opposed the introduction of congestion charging and backed airport expansion.

"The Green Party is the only party willing to take the measures needed to protect ourselves from the catastrophic impact run away climate change would cause."

 

"That the majority of prospective Conservative MPs see climate change as the least important issue is despicable"

 A recent poll conducted by the website ConservativeHome (2) had reducing Britain's carbon footprint as the lowest priority (2). This was a poll of 250 Conservative candidates in the most winnable seats, and the issue ranked 19th out of 19 issues. 76 per cent of Conservative members want Cameron to focus on energy bills above climate change.

Darren commented:

"That Cameron is able to stand up in front of the electorate and tell people that they should 'vote blue to go green' when the majority of his prospective MPs see climate change as the least important issue that we face is despicable.

"Climate change is more important to people now than it was even ten years ago, and this is only going to increase - already we are seeing around 300,000 deaths globally each year as a direct result of climate change (3).

"The Green Party believes that the environmental crisis and the economic crisis can be and should be tackled together. To ignore one at the expense of the other is simply not responsible."

 

When asked why voters should vote for the Green Party, Darren said:

"Small numbers of elected Greens have had decisive influence all over Britain when it comes to action to help tackle climate change and introducing energy conservation measures.

"Greens elected to parliament next week would carry on this trend."

 

Notes:

1. To read more about Green Party environmental policy please see our fully costed manifesto: http://www.greenparty.org.uk/assets/files/resources/Manifesto_web_file.pdf

2. Please see: http://conservativehome.blogs.com/thetorydiary/2010/01/75-of-tory-members-urge-cameron-to-focus-on-energy-bills-not-climate-change.html

3. Please see: http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2009/may/29/1 

