Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228060023.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

CHOICE AND THE CHARTER

The Citizen's Charter is the most far-reaching programme ever devised to improve quality in public services. It addresses the needs of those who use public services, extends people's rights, requires services to set clear standards - and to tell the public how far those standards are met.

The Citizen's Charter:

    widens popular choice;
    helps people to exercise that choice in a properly informed way;
    expects all public services to put the customer first;
    promotes the challenge of competition within the public sector;
    requires clear performance standards to be set and for services to be measured against them;
    insists on a proper response to complaints and on action to set right the problems behind them. 

The Charter will be at the centre of government's decision-making throughout the 1990s. No one doubts the professionalism of the vast majority of public servants. But too often the system's outdated working methods and attitudes prevent them from giving their best. The Charter's commitment to modern, open services will help them to win the respect that good service deserves.

In less than a year since the White Paper, 18 detailed Charters have been published. Each sets out tough new standards and gives new information and rights to the public. Each will be revised regularly to check on progress, and raise standards higher. But, already results are clear.

    In hospitals, from April, every out-patient will have a fixed appointment time and our guarantee of maximum waiting times for operations will be steadily improved.
    On council estates every tenant will have the right to call in a private contractor if the council fails to do a minor repair.
    In schools, all parents will have the right to a report on their child's performance and details on that of the school. 

Rights such as these should not have been denied to the public. The Citizen's Charter, steadily but surely, is changing all that.

