Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228020014.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

The Labour Party Manifesto 2010Meeting the challenges of the new global age

A global future

The challenge for Britain

To harness our strengths and values, as we developBritain’s world role in a global era, using our alliancesand networks in order to promote security, economicprosperity, development and to safeguard theenvironment. The contrast with the Tory view could notbe starker: they are stuck in the past, spurning alliancesin Europe and helpless to defend our interests or securethe global change we need.The next stage of national renewal• Conduct a Strategic Defence Review to equip our ArmedForces for 21st Century challenges, and support ourtroops and veterans.• Use our international reach to build security andstability – combating terrorism and extremism, curbingproliferation, preventing and resolving conflict, andtackling climate change.• Lead the agenda for an outward-facing European Unionthat delivers jobs, prosperity and global influence.• Re-energise the drive to achieve the MillenniumDevelopment Goals, supporting sustainable growth andcombating poverty.• Reform the UN, International Financial Institutions,the G8 and G20, and NATO to adapt to the new globalchallenges.

Afghanistan: ourcommitment
There is no greaterresponsibility than to commitour troops into action. That iswhy we take our responsibilitiesin Afghanistan and to ourArmed Forces so seriously.A stable Afghanistan and astable Pakistan means a saferBritain: if Afghanistan fell tothe Taleban, Al Qaeda couldregroup, and Pakistan’s stabilityand our national security wouldbe threatened.Our Armed Forces are servingwith incredible courage andskill alongside representativesof more than 40 other nations.They are a credit to thecountry and an example tothe world. We have met everyrequest for extra equipmentfor Afghanistan: in the lastfour years we have doubled thenumber of helicopters, andspent £1.7 billion on 1,800 newvehicles – including the Mastiff,brought into service in recordtime and saving lives withworld-leading protection againstmines and roadside bombs.Our forces are working toa clear strategy – to protectthe Afghan people and trainAfghan security forces. TheLondon conference in January2010 agreed there should be300,000 Afghan Army andPolice by the end of 2011,with British forces and othercountries shifting more of theireffort into training to beginthe process of handing overresponsibility for districts andprovinces to Afghan forces laterthis year.Afghanistan is not a warwithout end. Together themilitary and civilian effortis designed to create theconditions for a politicalsettlement that keeps Al Qaedaout, reconciles tribal interests,and involves Afghanistan’sneighbours. It will lock in thelong-term gains delivered byour aid programme since 2002
– with millions more children,especially girls, going to school,big reductions in child mortality,and better access to basichealthcare. It requires strongerlocal administration and lesscorruption, combined with away back for former fighterswho are prepared to renouncelinks to Al Qaeda and abide bythe Afghan constitution.Strengthening our ArmedForces and nationalsecurityThe first duty of governmentis to protect the security ofits citizens. We have createdBritain’s first ever NationalSecurity Strategy to strengthenour response to fast-movingand interconnected threats,from terrorism and nuclearproliferation to new challengeslike cybersecurity. We havetrebled investment in counterterrorismat home, combinedwith multilateral action againstterrorism and extremismabroad, not just in the Afghan-Pakistan border areas – still themain source of the threat – butalso in Yemen and Somalia.Our commitment to defenceis non-negotiable. Defencespending has increased by tenper cent in real terms since1997. Funding for Iraq andAfghanistan is additional tothat, with the Treasury Reserveproviding £18 billion in total sofar and an estimated £5 billionin the next year.Despite this continuedinvestment, acute cost pressuresremain in long-term defenceprojects. We are reformingdefence procurement, makingfurther reductions in civilianstaff, and cutting lower-priorityspending on headquarters costs,travel and consultancy.A Strategic Defence Reviewwill look at all areas of defence,but we will maintain ourindependent nuclear deterrent.We will fight for multilateraldisarmament, working for aworld free of nuclear weapons,in the Non Proliferation TreatyReview conference and beyond– combining support for civiliannuclear energy with concertedaction against proliferation.We are committed to a strongNavy based on the new aircraftcarriers, an Air Force with twostate-of-the-art fast-jet fleets aswell as additional helicopters,transport planes and unmanneddrones, and a strong, high-techArmy, vastly better equippedthan it was in 1997.The growth in the core defencebudget has also enabled usto guarantee fair pay for allour forces, including the firstever tax-free bonus for thoseon operations abroad, whilestrengthening our support fortheir welfare. Service familiescan now retain their place onNHS waiting lists when they aredeployed to another part of thecountry. Further education isfree for those leaving the forceswith six years’ service or more.We have invested hundreds ofmillions of pounds to reversea legacy of decades of neglectof forces’ accommodation,and we are helping servicepersonnel get onto the housingladder. Homelessness amongservice leavers has been sharplyreduced, and the law changedto give them better access tosocial housing.The new Queen ElizabethHospital in Birmingham willhave a military-run wardand the largest single-floorcritical care unit in the world.Headley Court and the newArmy Recovery Capability willcontinue to offer world-leadingsupport to those rehabilitatingafter serious injury. Wehave doubled the lump-sumpayments for the most seriouslyinjured to £570,000, andincreased the lifetime-incomepayments by up to a third.As a sign of our continuedcommitment to the militarycommunity, we will introducea Forces Charter to enshrine
in law the rights of forces,their families, and Veterans.A Veterans ID card will helpVeterans access their improvedbenefits and will be free toservice leavers. We will continueto strengthen mental healthprovision in partnership withthe Combat Stress charity, androll out our Welfare Pathway togive personnel and their familiesbetter support and advice.A strong Britain in areformed EuropeWe are proud that Britain isonce again a leading playerin Europe. Our belief is thatBritain is stronger in the worldwhen the European Union isstrong, and that Britain succeedswhen it leads in Europe and setsthe agenda for change. Sullenresistance and disengagementachieve nothing.Stronger competitivenessmust be Europe’s economicpriority. Europe will onlygrow and prosper if it isdynamic and knowledge-based,with excellent universities,competitive companies, andthriving start-ups, underpinnedby a modern infrastructure ofdigital communications andlow-carbon transport. TheEU should strive to improvethe regulatory environment, inparticular for small and mediumsized business. But we rejectany attempt to renegotiate orunravel social rights for theBritish people, and believe thateconomic strength and socialprotection go hand-in-hand –a modern EU must enhancecompetitiveness and growthwhile guaranteeing security andfair rights at work.Fundamental reform of theEU budget remains necessary,with further changes to theCommon Agricultural Policyon the way to ending exportsubsidies. Transfers within theEU must target those areas thatare least well off. On the Euro,we hold to our promise thatthere will be no membership ofthe single currency without theconsent of the British people ina referendum.We support the enlargementof EU membership to includeCroatia, and believe thatall Western Balkan statesshould open negotiations onEU accession by 2014 – onehundred years after the start ofthe First World War. Turkey’sfuture membership is a key testof Europe’s potential to becomea bridge between religions andregions; there must be continuedprogress on its application tojoin the EU. In its foreign policy,Europe should play a key rolein conflict resolution and thepromotion of security, and workbilaterally to achieve its goalswith the leading global powersin each region of the world.On climate change, the EU hasa critical leadership role to playin securing a legally bindingUN agreement, reducing itsemissions by 30 per cent on1990 levels in the context of anambitious global deal. It mustalso offer stronger leadership onglobal poverty reduction.We will strengthen co-operationwith our EU partners infighting crime and internationalterrorism, and support practicalEuropean co-operation ondefence, in partnership withNATO. To symbolise itscommitment to global peaceand justice, and energise itsyoung people, we propose aEuropean Peace Corps.The poverty of the Tory visionis summed up by their falsechoice between an alliancewith the United States andone with Europe. In Europethey are not just isolated,but marginalised – in a tinygroup of far-right parties thatendorses extreme views and isstuck in climate-change denial.Elsewhere in the world theiranti-European attitudes areseen as undermining Britishinfluence. They are helpless toshape change, or defend ourinterests.

Strengthening globalsecurity and preventingconflict
We strongly believe in cooperationbetween nationsfor a safer world. We willcontinue to press for strongerinternational action againstterrorism and learn the lessonsof recent experience to preventand defuse conflict and buildstability and the rule of law inplaces that would otherwiseshelter terrorist networks. Wehave shown in Afghanistan andelsewhere that our military,diplomats and developmentstaff can set an internationalstandard for joint working, butwe will not put the aid budgetunder military control. Wewill spend at least half of ournew bilateral aid in fragile andconflict-affected states.Having played a leading rolein the international agreementto ban cluster bombs, we areleading the campaign for alegally binding global armstrade treaty in 2012.We will continue to drive reformof the humanitarian agenciesat the UN and work to buildan international consensus on‘responsibility to protect’, whilesupporting the InternationalCriminal Court in bringingpreviously untouchablecriminals to justice. We willadvocate a new internationalconvention to enable theprosecution of perpetrators ofgenocide and crimes againsthumanity.There is no more importantpart of the world for globalsecurity than the Middle East.We support the creation of aviable Palestinian state that canlive alongside a secure Israel.All the countries of the regionhave a role to play in deliveringthe vision of the Arab PeaceInitiative – normalised relationsbetween Arab states and Israelin return for a Palestinian state.They also have a shared interestin preventing the acquisitionof nuclear weapons by Iran.This is the gravest nuclearthreat to global security sincethe foundation of the Non-Proliferation Treaty in the1960s. We support engagementand pressure on the Iranianregime; it is threatening its ownpeople as well as the security ofthe region and the world.In Africa, Labour has madeaid, trade, conflict preventionand good governance a priority.We will support the finalstages of the ComprehensivePeace Agreement in Sudan,and maintain the pressure forZimbabwe to transition backto democracy as quickly aspossible.We will work with Greece andTurkey for long-term stability inCyprus; and continue to supportbilateral efforts by India andPakistan to improve relations.The two countries haveprofound ties to the UK, whichwe are determined to nurture.We will keep up the pressure forthe release of Aung Sang SuuKyi and a return to democracyin Burma.We strongly supportreconstruction andreconciliation in Sri Lanka. Webelieve that both the LTTEand the Government of SriLanka must be held to accountfor the loss of civilian life, andwe will continue to urge the SriLankan Government to fulfil itscommitment to a full and fairinvestigation into war crimescommitted in the final monthsof the civil war.Human rights and democracyare a central feature of ourforeign policy for a simplereason – we believe humanrights are universal, and it isthe job of strong and maturedemocracies to support thedevelopment of free societieseverywhere – while upholdingour own legal and moralobligations.

The global povertyemergency: our moralduty, our common interest
Labour’s internationalleadership on developmenthas helped transform the livesof millions across the world.Yet too many people still livein extreme poverty, die fromtreatable diseases, or are deniedthe chance to go to school.We will lead an internationalcampaign to get the MillenniumDevelopment Goals back ontrack. We remain committedto spending 0.7 per cent ofnational income on aid from2013, and we will enshrine thiscommitment in law early in thenext Parliament. Our aid willtarget the poorest and mostexcluded – spent transparentlyand evaluated independently.We will fight corruption,investing more to track, freeze,and recover assets stolenfrom developing countries.Further action will be taken tostrengthen developing countries’tax systems, reduce tax evasion,improve reporting, and crackdown on tax havens. To increaseaccountability, we will allocate atleast five per cent of all fundingdeveloping country budgets forthe purpose of strengtheningthe role of Parliaments and civilsociety.Our leadership on debtcancellation has freed 28countries from the shacklesof debt. We will continue todrive this agenda, building onlegislation to clampdown onvulture funds.Access to health, education,food, water and sanitation arebasic human rights. We willspend £8.5 billion over eightyears to help more children goto school; maintain our pledgeto spend £6 billion on healthbetween 2008 and 2015 and £1billion through the Global Fundto support the fight againstHIV/AIDS, TB and malaria;fight for universal access toprevention, treatment andcare for HIV/AIDS by 2010;and deliver at least 30 millionadditional anti-malarial bednetsover the next three years.We will provide £1 billionfor water and sanitation by2013, driving this issue up theinternational agenda, and over£1 billion on food security andagriculture. We will push forthe establishment of a GlobalCouncil on Child Hunger. Wewill help save the lives of sixmillion mothers and babies by2015 and, because internationalfocus on the needs of womenand girls is vital, we will doublecore funding to the new UNWomen’s agency. While theTories would favour privateschemes, we will work closelywith NGOs and developingcountries to eliminate user feesand promote healthcare andeducation free at the pointof access. We will encourageother countries to ratify theILO conventions on labourstandards, as we have done.Trade can lift millions out ofpoverty. We will work with theprivate sector, trade unionsand co-operatives to promotesustainable development,quadruple our funding for fairand ethical trade, and press fora fair World Trade Organisationdeal, with no enforcedliberalisation for poor countries,and increased duty-free andquota-free access.
Reforming globalinstitutionsIn today’s world, power isshifting, flowing downwards andoutwards towards new non-stateactors, networked by moderncommunications. Governmentsand global institutions mustrespond to this change – andreform to meet new challenges.They need to be more effectivebut also more inclusive. Tosecure global change, we willmake the case for:• The extension of the G8.• A clearer mandate for theWorld Bank to focus on the
poorest countries and promotelow-carbon development;and for the IMF to focus onfinancial stability, with bothbecoming more inclusive.• Radical UN reform, includingnew membership of theSecurity Council, budgetaryreform, and an overhaul ofUN agencies.• Continuing reform of NATOand stronger internationalco-operation to tackle securitychallenges, while building thecapacity of regional securityorganisations including theAfrican Union.• The enduring role of theCommonwealth – a uniqueorganisation for fosteringunderstanding and trust,spanning a quarter of theworld’s population.International commitmentsand a voice for Britain in globalaffairs are not an optional extrafor Labour. They are central toour vision of a better Britain.We have strengthened ourinternational alliances and willcontinue to do so in ways thatspeak to our deepest values as anation.
