Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_020038.txt

Press Release from Party: Lab

20.4.2010




Too soon to cut jobs help - Yvette Cooper

Yvette CooperLabour today set out new plans for a job guarantee for the long term unemployed and vowed to continue support for jobs and the economy until the recovery is secure. Latest figures show overall unemployment increased in the three months to February, whilst the claimant count fell in March.

To read Labour's plan, Supporting People Back To Work, please click here.

Yvette Cooper, responding to today's unemployment figures, said:

"These figures show just how vital it is to keep up support for jobs and the economy this year until the recovery is secure.

"Many people are still having a hard time as a result of the recession. February was a tough month and overall unemployment rose. But March figures for the claimant count show a drop - the fourth drop in five months.

But the figures make clear we're not out of the woods yet. It would be disastrous for families and for jobs to cut back on public spending and support for the economy right now as the Tories have promised.

"Its also essential to keep increasing the help for the unemployed this year - not abolish 200,000 jobs as the Tories want.

"Labour's support for jobs an d the unemployed has made a difference. The number of young people on unemployment benefit has fallen for the fifth month running, and the number on the dole over 6 months has fallen thanks to the youth guarantee. The claimant count is also half a million lower than expected last year.

"But it is essential that the support continues. In previous recessions unemployment kept rising for years after recession finished, because the Conservative government had turned its back. We've always said we expected unemployment to increase until the summer. But that's why it's so vital to keep increasing help for the unemployed through the Future Jobs Fund and the Job Guarantee, not cut it all back and destroy jobs as the Conservatives would do."

