Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228020006.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

The Labour Party Manifesto 2010Prosperity for all not just a few

Living standards

The challenge for Britain
To grow together as a country, rewarding those whowork hard so they can do well and look after theirfamilies: returning Britain to full employment, enablingpeople to get higher-paid and better jobs, and wideningaccess to home ownership. The Tories have no plan forfairness; their decisions would make our society moreunequal and unjust.The next stage of national renewal• 200,000 jobs through the Future Jobs Fund, with a job ortraining place for young people who are out of work forsix months, but benefits cut at ten months if they refuseto take part; and anyone unemployed for more than twoyears guaranteed work, but no option of life on benefits.• A National Minimum Wage rising at least in line withaverage earnings, and a new £40-a-week Better Off inWork guarantee.• More advanced apprenticeships and Skills Accounts forworkers to upgrade their skills.• No stamp duty for first-time buyers on all housepurchases below £250,000 for two years, paid for by afive per cent rate on homes worth more than £1 million.• A People’s Bank at the Post Office; a Universal ServiceObligation on banks to serve every community; aclampdown on interest rates for doorstep and paydayloans.

As the British economy returnsto growth, we will ensure thateveryone who is willing towork shares fairly in renewedprosperity. We will support therecovery so that we see a swiftreturn to full employment, withmore chances to get on at workand a fair distribution of growththroughout Britain.Our job guarantees willput an end to long-termunemployment and a life onbenefits. No one fit for workshould be abandoned to a lifeon benefit, so all those who canwork will be required to do so.At the same time, we believethat people should be able toearn enough to live and bebetter off than on welfare.In today’s world, every workerneeds to be able to upgradetheir skills in order to get on. Aswell as good career prospects,people want to know that theirliving standards and qualityof life will improve. So wewill enable more people to geton the housing ladder; offera helping hand to build upsavings; and secure a fair dealwith the banks to strengthenpeople’s personal finances.A modern welfare statefor allWe will build a personalisedwelfare system that offersprotection for all those whoneed it, increases people’scontrol over their own lives, andis clear about the responsibilitiesowed to others. Getting morepeople into employmentincreases tax revenues andreduces spending on benefits.Our intensive help for peopleout of work – starting fromday one – has already keptunemployment more than halfa million lower than predictedduring the recession, saving£15 billion over the next fiveyears.We are determined that no-oneshould be scarred for life byjoblessness. No young personin Britain should be long-termunemployed: those out of workfor six months or more willbe guaranteed employment
or training through the £1billion Future Jobs Fund, withmandatory participation afterten months. The fund willsupport 200,000 jobs. All thosewho are long-term unemployedfor two years will be guaranteeda job placement, which they willbe required to take up or havetheir benefits cut.More people with disabilitiesand health conditions willbe helped to move into workfrom Incapacity Benefitand Employment SupportAllowance, as we extend theuse of our tough-but-fair workcapability test. This will help toreduce the benefit bill by £1.5billion over the next four years.We will reassess the IncapacityBenefit claims of 1.5 millionpeople by 2014, as we movethose able to work backinto jobs.For those with the most seriousconditions or disabilities whowant to work there will be anew guarantee of supportedemployment after two years onbenefit. We will seek to ensurethat disabled people are able tolead dignified and independentlives, free of discrimination andwith the support to which theyare entitled.The lone parent employmentrate has increased by over 12per cent since 1997. We areradically reforming how JobCentre Plus helps lone parents:providing extra help withchildcare, training and supportto find family-friendly work,while requiring those withchildren aged three to take stepsto prepare for work and activelyto seek employment oncetheir youngest child is sevenyears old.Our goal is to makeresponsibility the cornerstoneof our welfare state. HousingBenefit will be reformed toensure that we do not subsidisepeople to live in the privatesector on rents that otherordinary working families couldnot afford. And we will continueto crack down on those who tryto cheat the benefit system.Making work payThe National MinimumWage is one of our proudestachievements. It protectsand sustains millions of low-paidworkers. To ensure thatthe lowest paid share fairlyin rising prosperity, the LowPay Commission’s remit willhave the goal of the NationalMinimum Wage rising at leastin line with average earningsover the period to 2015.To underline our commitmentto helping the lowest paidwe will ask all WhitehallDepartments, within theirallocated budgets, to followthe lead of those who alreadypay the Living Wage. This willbe supported by measures toaddress high pay in the publicsector - reducing pay-billpressure in the years ahead.To ensure that work pays,we will guarantee that whensomeone who has found itdifficult to get into work comesoff benefits, their family willbe at least £40 a week betteroff. This is our Better Off inWork guarantee: together theNational Minimum Wage andtax credits should always makework pay. And we will consulton further reforms to simplifythe benefits system and makesure it gives people the rightincentives and personal supportto get into work and progress intheir jobs.We want everyone to havebetter prospects in work.We will give the Low PayCommission additionalresponsibilities to reporton productivity and careerprogression in low-skilled, low-paidsectors, bringing togetherrepresentatives from thebusiness community and socialpartners.

Getting ahead: investingin you
As we restore full employmentto the British economy, wewill seek to make work morefulfilling and secure. Thatmeans helping people toimprove their skills.We have rescued theapprenticeship systemsupporting more than 250,000places a year, and we willnow expand technician-levelapprenticeships to ensureBritain has the skills it needs forthe future.We have legislated for a rightto request time for trainingand will continue to invest inworkplace training throughTrain to Gain. New SkillsAccounts will enable everyworker to make choices thatdrive improvement and qualityin the skills system. Accountswill help learners know whattraining they are entitled to, thelevel of funding available andthe benefits of training for theircareers. But good work is aboutmore than just skills. Strongeremployee engagement improvesinnovation and productivity: wewill continue to promote moreeffective employee engagementin the workplace.Improving your livingstandardsOur aim is to put more wealthin the hands of the Britishpeople. We have done all wecan to keep mortgage rateslow – at 0.5 per cent duringthis recession compared to 15per cent in the 1990s – andwill continue to do so in thefuture. The direct tax andbenefit measures introducedsince 1997 mean that in 2010-11, households will be £1,450a year better off on average. Afamily with one child and oneperson working full time willhave a minimum income of£310 a week in October 2010 -27 per cent higher in real termsthan in 1999. Tax credits will beincreased not cut.As family budgets are undergreater pressure, we will domore to help people with thecost of living. Council Taxincreases have fallen to theirlowest ever rate and we expectthem to stay low. There willbe more help with energy billsthrough the Social Tariff andWinter Fuel Payments, and wewill work with the regulator topromote greater competitionand diversity in the supplyof energy to ensure fallingwholesale prices get passed ontohouseholds in lower bills.Fairness at workWe will strive to ensure fairnessat work for all employees,continuing our crackdownon exploitative gang-mastersand rogue employers. In allsectors the law must be upheld,properly enforcing safety andemployment rights, and tacklingtax avoidance. We will extendthe licensing approach to labourproviders in the constructionindustry if the evidenceshows that is the best way toenforce employment rights. Wehave strengthened HMRC’senforcement of the minimumwage. In future it will cooperatemore closely with localauthorities to enforce minimumwage legislation. We areenacting the Agency WorkersDirective to offer additionalprotection to agency workers inrelation to pay and conditions.New legislation and theEquality and Human RightsCommission will ensure thatpeople are not held back atwork because of their gender,age, disability, race andreligious or sexual orientation.The new Equality Act will beenforced, promoting fairnessacross our society. The publicduty to promote equality ofopportunity is being extended.We will encourage employers tomake greater use of pay reviewsand equality checks to eliminate
unfair pay gaps, includinginequalities in pay between menand women.Modern trade unions are animportant part of our societyand economy, providingprotection and advice foremployees, and workingfor equality and greaterfairness in the workplace. Wewelcome their positive role inencouraging partnership andproductivity.
More home ownershipOwning your own home is theaspiration of most families. Wewant as many people as possibleto share in the benefits of homeownership, and to have a stakein an affordable home. Thateveryone has access to a decenthome at a price they can affordis a central Labour ambition.We will widen home ownership:over 160,000 households havebeen supported into ownershipthrough government actionsince 1997. We will exemptpurchases below £250,000from stamp duty for the nexttwo years, benefiting morethan nine out of ten first-timebuyers. This will be paid for byincreasing stamp duty to fiveper cent for homes worth morethan £1 million.Our highly popular Home BuyDirect scheme will continue.We will work with HousingAssociations to develop a newform of affordable housingtargeted at working families onmodest incomes who strugglein the private sector and rarelyqualify for social housing. Thiswill focus on enabling workingpeople to rent an affordablehome at below market rateswhile they build up anequity stake.We have acted decisively tomake repossession the lastresort, helping over 330,000families stay in their homes sothat repossessions are runningat around half the rate of theearly 1990s recession. We willnow strengthen regulation toensure consistent standardsof consumer protection fromrepossession, making the FSAresponsible for the regulationof all mortgages. This meanstransferring second chargeloans such as debt consolidationloans, which are often issuedby sub-prime lenders, intothe FSA’s tougher regime –guaranteeing equal protectionfor homeowners.We are investing £7.5 billionover two years to 2011 to buildnew houses, delivering 110,000additional energy-efficient,affordable homes to rent orbuy. We believe local authoritiesshould be able to play theirpart in providing socialhousing in the future; and wewill reform the council housefinancing system to enablelocal authorities to maintainproperties at the Decent Homestandard and to build up to10,000 council houses a year bythe end of the next Parliament.Tenant involvement in themanagement of social housingproperties will be stronglyencouraged.Better housingThis Government has led theway in making sure that Britishhomes are greener homesthrough our world-leadingcommitment to all new homesbeing zero carbon by 2016and the construction of neweco-towns, which will havethe highest standards of greenliving yet seen in Britain.Local authorities now havegreater flexibility over theallocation of social housing inorder to promote mixed andsustainable communities. Wewill guarantee the three millionhouseholds who rent from aprivate landlord the right toa written tenancy agreementand access to free and impartialadvice; and we will establisha new National LandlordRegister.
We are committed to endingrough sleeping by 2012, andwe will tackle the problemsfaced by homeless people withmultiple needs. We will providehomeless 16 and 17 year oldswith Foyer-based supportedaccommodation and trainingincluding help with parentingskills. Once there is enoughprovision to provide universalcoverage we will legislate tochange the law so that for 16and 17 year olds the right tohousing is met solely throughsupported housing.Our regeneration policieshave transformed previouslyneglected communities, andour great cities are amongthe best in the world. We willmake savings in regenerationfunding and focus on tacklingworklessness, transforming theprospects of those areas mostdisconnected from the widereconomy.Support with savingWe will do more to supportsaving and spread wealth acrossmore families. The annuallimits for Individual SavingsAccounts have been raised to£10,200 and will be indexlinked.The Pension Creditcapital disregard will increasefrom £6,000 to £10,000.The pioneering SavingsGateway account for people onlower incomes will be availableto over eight million familiesfrom July 2010, providing amatch of 50p for each £1 savedup to a limit of £300. We willextend this approach evenfurther, giving a boost to savingsfor more people on middleincomes. To help encouragethe savings habit amongyoung adults, we will develop amatched savings account for all18-30 basic-rate taxpayers, asset out in the Budget.For the next generation we willprotect – not cut – the ChildTrust Fund – the world’s firstuniversal savings policy foryoung people, already giving4.8 million children a nestegg for the future. We willcontribute an additional £100a year to the Child Trust Fundsof all disabled children.A new deal on personalfinancesIn the post-crisis economy, wewill fight for consumers andstand up to vested interests thattreat people unfairly, whether inthe private or public sector. Wewant a fair deal for all.The Post Office has aninvaluable role to play inour communities and inserving local businesses. Topromote trusted and accessiblebanking, we will transformthe Post Office into a People’sBank offering a full range ofcompetitive, affordable products.This will help sustain thenetwork and boost competitionin banking. The universal postalservice delivered by the RoyalMail connects and binds ustogether as a country. We arefirmly committed to the 28million homes and businessesacross the country receivingmail six days a week, with thepromise that one price goeseverywhere. The Royal Mailand its staff are taking welcomeand needed steps to modernisework practices. For the future,continuing modernisation andinvestment will be needed by theRoyal Mail in the public sector.We will introduce a universalservice obligation on retailbanks, so that all consumerswith a valid address have alegal right to a basic bankaccount, and a right to redressif this is refused. Banks willhave to publicly report onthe extent to which they areunder-serving communities.And we will introduce a newlevy on the banks to help funda step-change in the scale ofaffordable lending by thirdsectororganisations, includinga new partnership with the PostOffice, offering an alternativeto loan sharks and high-costdoorstep lending.
Over the lifetime of the nextParliament, as more affordablelending becomes available, wewill clamp down on the interestrates and other fees chargedby instant loan companies andpayday or doorstep lenders,tackling the very high costlending that hits low-incomecommunities hardest. We willintroduce a single regulatorfor consumer finance torestore confidence and trustwith responsibility for thesupervision of all unsecuredlending being passed to theFinancial Services Authority.And new rules governing howfinancial products are sold willbe introduced with a crackdownon unfair terms in contracts.Finally, we will seek to promotecompetition in high-streetbanking by introducingportable bank account and cashISA numbers that stimulateswitching where consumersare dissatisfied, along withconsistent, easily understoodlabelling of financial products.
