Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040087.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


First Time Ever BBC Mentions White Murder Victims Is to Attack BNP
April 2, 2010

racims-cuts-both-ways

The BBC has once again revealed its vicious anti-white bias with its first ever mention of white murder victims Gavin Hopley and Chris Yates (both murdered in racially motivated attacks)  but only in a blatant politically-motivated attack on the British National Party.

Up to last night, the BBC had ignored the vicious spate of non-white murders of whites, upon which the BNP had campaigned more than two years ago.

Amongst the hundreds of white British victims of racial assaults, the names Gavin Hopley and Chris Yates had featured prominently.

Gavin Hopley, 19, was murdered in 2002 while looking for a taxi in the Muslim-dominated no-go area of Glodwick by a gang of ten Muslim men and youths. Gavin was cornered and brutally beaten, with his head being stamped on time and time again.

Gavins headstone has been attacked and flowers destroyed. A memorial plaque erected by the local BNP was fixed near the spot where Gavin was murdered, but it was removed by the police, despite the fact that his grandparents had given the go-ahead for it.

Chris Yates, 30, was murdered in 2004 in Barking by three unemployed Ilford Muslims. Chris had just escorted a girl to a late night bus stop after a night out with friends when he made the mistake of asking the group of Muslim men why they were arguing. They turned on him in a brutal and unprovoked attack.

One of the attackers, Sajid Zulfiqar, yelled in Urdu: We have killed the white man. That will teach an Englishman not to interfere in Paki business.

In an effort to evade justice the three killers fled Ilford and hid for a week in a hotel, owned by a friend, in the Yorkshire town of Pontefract. They planned to evade justice and to fly to Pakistan from Manchester Airport, but were caught after a porter heard them discussing their crime.

Despite the clear racial overtones of these attacks, the BBC covered them up and pretended they had not happened, in stark contrast to the handful of racial murders committed by whites against non-whites.

An edition of Newsnight devoted to the topic was simply a spoiler for the forthcoming Stoke elections, said BNP legal director Lee Barnes.

Speaking after the show had been broadcast on BBC 2, Mr Barnes said it was obvious that the BBC executives planned the whole show in order to attack the BNP.

I can understand that Gavin Hopleys brother doesnt want Gavin to be remembered only for his death, but the fact is that without the BNP, his memory would already be forgotten.

Only the BNP keeps the memory of these dead victims of multiculturalism alive. The BBC only remembers them when they are used for their political campaigns against the BNP.

The only time that the BBC have ever mentioned Gavin Hopley since his death, was in their Newsnight attack on the BNP, Mr Barnes pointed out.

Until tonight they have never made any reference to Gavin Hopley or Chris Yates  ever. Yet they constantly make reference to Stephen Lawrence while conveniently forgetting about white victims of racism.

Mr Barnes said that it was not the BNP which had used the dead for political reasons, but actually the BBC.

There was no public inquiry and mass media coverage of the death of Gavin Hopley, unlike the one conducted for Stephen Lawrence, he continued.

The BNP makes no apology for highlighting the race attacks on whites. The media highlight race attacks on blacks and ethnics every day, but ignore the far more numerous attacks which are racially motivated against whites.

Via their multicultural propaganda, the BBC wants to bolster the anti-BNP establishment parties, Mr Barnes said.

This is because the BBC is the primary promoter and propagandist of the evil multicultural system. Therefore they will do anything to sustain the evil which they have propagated, Mr Barnes concluded.

* In his reaction to the Newsnight programme, BNP leader Nick Griffin MEP said that the Racism Cuts Both Ways campaign had assessed whether a murder of a white victim was racist by using exactly the same set of criteria used by the Institute for Race Relations to create a highly publicised list of all ethnic victims of racist murder.

The resulting statistics were analysed by a professional statistician, and showed that racist murder in the UK is overwhelmingly a crime in which indigenous Britons are the victims rather than the perpetrators, Mr Griffin said.

We regard the BBCs refusal to take this issue seriously as in itself an indication of the shocking endemic racism and antwhite discrimination among the political and media elite.

Click here to visit the BNPs online Racism Cuts Both Ways campaign.

Posted in National News | Comments (160)

