Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040137.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Institute for Fiscal Studies Warns That Labour Will Increase Tax
April 13, 2010

tax-scrabbleOne of Britains leading independent microeconomic research institutes, the 40-year-old Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS), has savaged the Labour Partys economic election manifesto as opening the door to further tax rises of at least 1,420 per family each year.

The London-based IFS also said that the Labour Partys manifesto had left key questions on tax and spending unanswered.

The [Labour] party listed plenty of new things it would like to do, but was no clearer about where spending cuts would fall, the IFS said in an official statement.

Labour has not explained how it will fund the 1 billion cost of care for the elderly, the 490 million for creating 70,000 apprenticeships, or 300 million for free nursery places for two-year-olds and 15 hours of free nursery education for three- and four-year-olds, it continued.

Plans for a toddler tax credit worth 4 a week would add 180 million a year to the price tag, while transforming the Post Office into a Peoples Bank would also be 180 million.

If implemented, the Labour Partys manifesto would run up a 22 billion spending bill which would inevitably mean tax rises, the IFS concluded.

To meet current commitments  never mind what Labour has promised in its bogus manifesto  a further 734 billion will have to be borrowed by 2016.

This will generate a national debt of 1.4 trillion, the largest in Britains history.

The British National Partys solution to this problem is simple and efficient: cut expenditure on all items which do not serve British interests.

There is no reason to plunge British taxpayers into further debt to pay for:

- A 650 million annual bailout of the Greek economy;

- A 9 billion annual foreign aid budget (set to rise to 13 billion per year);

- A 13 billion per year immigration bill (as calculated by MigrationwatchUK);

- A 4 billion per year asylum swindle;

- A 5 billion per year war in Afghanistan (not to mention the 50 billion spent on the Iraq war);

- A 60.1 billion per year handout for EU membership; and

- Uncounted billions handed out to private banks, amongst many other rackets such as climate change.

Further billions can be saved by ending the state-funded multiculturalist propaganda machines such as the anti-British Equalities and Human Rights Commission, the various equality and diversity schemes, failed Prevent strategies and what seems like an endless list of ethnic organisations, all of which parasite off the back of the British taxpayer.

The BNPs position is that all of these unnecessary expenditures must be cut before any decision is taken on cuts to public services.

It is time to put the interests of the British people first, and only the BNP has this as its central policy.

Posted in National News | Comments (58)

