Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228070026.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

The Constitution

The UK Independence Party supports the principles and values of the British political system: constitutional monarchy; parliamentary government; common law and the Union. The British constitution has great flexibility and a proud tradition of democratic reform. It has adapted well to changing social conditions, providing stability, continuity and an underlying sense of freedom. There have been no revolutions in Britain since 1688 and no extremist movement - right or left - has ever gained mass support. Our history and our political system vary markedly from those of continental Europe. We aim to preserve and build upon our best political traditions, but we can only do this as an independent and free people.

The UKIP opposes moves to abolish the British constitution and replace it with rigid EU law. We oppose attempts to balkanise our country into 'regions' answerable largely to Brussels. And we deplore the gradual loss of parliamentary authority under both Tory and New Labour regimes. To shore up our constitutional tradition, and protect it from future attacks, we believe that a few key reforms are needed.

First, the UKIP supports a new Bill of Rights for the United Kingdom. This will prevent at any time in the future any treaty that vests national sovereignty in an agency other than Parliament and the Crown. This Bill of Rights would be a Magna Carta for the twenty-first century, guaranteeing our independence and securing our democratic freedoms.

Secondly, the UKIP seeks to redress the balance of power in favour of Parliament - and away from an over-mighty Executive. We shall therefore legislate to circumscribe the government's ability to produce secondary legislation, and its reliance on Enabling Acts. The power and influence of the many unelected 'quangos' and 'task forces' is also in need of urgent review. Finally, there is a pressing need to formalise the system of Select Committees, to fund them adequately and give them statutory powers to require witnesses to attend. Equally, we need to give statutory authority, via Select Committees, to the findings of Parliamentary Ombudsmen.

The relationship between MPs and their constituents is a crucial part of the British political system. The UKIP believes that the MP's principal responsibility is to his or her constituents, not as mere party delegate. UKIP MPs would place their constituents' interests first and be prepared to think and act independently. Giving Parliament more teeth will encourage constructive criticism of government by MPs. This will keep Ministers on their toes and lead to more open government. As a matter of principle, we condemn the proposal for state funding of political parties, which gives rise to the dangerous possibility that the state can, in effect, strangle political opposition at birth by denying funding.

The UKIP believes in two-chamber government. We regret the weakening of the House of Lords through a mixture of opportunism, politics of envy and misguided reforming zeal. Already, conscientious and independent-minded peers have been replaced by 'cronies' who have nominal power but lack any moral authority.

Part of the EU myth is a decentralised 'Europe of Regions'. In effect, this means the break-up of nation states, the creation of toy-town regional assemblies in place of national parliaments, and the upward devolution of power to EU institutions lacking historical roots. In other words, regionalism is an illusion, another EU confidence trick. The UKIP seeks consensus, not divisive rivalry, between the constituent parts of the United Kingdom. The Welsh Assembly has proved unpopular and ineffective; we propose a second referendum to determine whether the current settlement has an ongoing mandate. The 'West Lothian question' remains unsolved, and the UKIP will address it as part of our ongoing restoration of parliamentary sovereignty. Likewise, we shall oppose any attempt to force on the people of Northern Ireland any constitutional change without their full and informed consent.

The EU project of a balkanised Britain has been aided by the reorganisation of local government under both Heath and Thatcher. The UKIP would return powers to local government, and repeal local government legislation that encourages secrecy and lack of accountability. The UKIP believes in restoring the county as the basis for local administration, and where possible, we shall return to pre-1974 county boundaries.

As a democratic party, we aim to widen participation in local politics. One device we favour is greater use of the referendum - when it is called for by citizens' petition. Referendum campaigns will reconnect local governments with the communities they serve and ensure that local government is properly representative. It will keep at bay both bureaucracy and politically-correct excesses. At the national level, too, all major constitutional questions should be approved by referenda, and we support the creation of an objective, impartial Referendum Commission. But the referendum must be seen as a supplement to representative government, not a substitute for it.

Above all, the UK Independence Party can promise that no EU 'constitution' or charter will be used to override British law. No other party can do that.

