Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_050012.txt

Press Release from Party: Greens

Caroline Lucas goes online to chat with mums

9 April 2010

Across two live webchats on Mumsnet and Netmums, Caroline Lucas, MEP and mother-of-two, answered questions from mothers wanting to know what voting Green will mean for them.

Caroline explained to a mother, on Mumsnet, how the Green Party is not just about the environment: "Lots of people know us for our environmental policies, but we are about so much more. Our main message is about fighting for fairness."

"Fairness is important when people access public services. So we want to guarantee that single parents get the childcare and support they need, that the healthcare postcode lottery ends, and that policing tackles people's day-to-day concerns."

Caroline was asked about health visitors, to which she sympathetically responded: "I know from my own experience how vital it is to have advice and support in those early weeks and months after childbirth - and just some basic reassurance that everything's going ok!"

"So health visitors need to be much more highly valued and better resourced. Some might say that it's costly to invest in such a service properly, but to my mind, the money invested would pay for itself many times over."

Caroline replied to a question regarding childcare: "We need affordable, high quality day-care, for parents who choose to go back to work, as well as a change in attitude which would mean that fathers can feel comfortable choosing childcare over external paid work too. We would also support and enhance Sure Start centres, and would press for a higher rate of child benefit, to more closely reflect the true costs of raising children."

When the issue of abuse was raised, Caroline said: "I agree that too many women have to battle to protect their children from abuse and agree that childrens' rights should be a starting point. 50% of all domestic violence is committed under the influence of alcohol, and this is an aspect of the problem I have been looking at in Brighton. I went on a late night walk with police earlier in the election to see first-hand the results of our 24-hour drinking laws, and it has given me lots to think about."

Caroline also answered concerns regarding women's representation in parliament: "I certainly share your sense that the electoral system needs to be much fairer and yes, we definitely need more women in parliament. It's extraordinary that in the so-called "mother of parliaments", we have only one fifth of MPs who are women - countries like Rwanda and Afghanistan do better than us!"

"I think a change in the voting system to a more proportional system would enable more women to get elected - fewer "safe seats", inhabited by the same men for years. But we also need to change the way we do politics - it's no surprise that so many women are turned off by the "yah-boo" politics of Westminster."

The Green Party leader concluded her Mumsnet chat with this:

"If you care about fairness, if you want Britain to be less unequal, if you want to see good local public services, if you want action to see investment in jobs, and if you want an environment that's safe for your children to grow up in, then all of those are good reasons for voting Green."

