Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228010026.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Railways and the London Underground

Britain’s railways are in chaos. They are a major casualty of many years of neglect and underinvestment by successive governments. We will work to see Railtrack become a not-for-profit, public interest company, and develop the railway system as the backbone of a modern transport system. In addition, we will:

    Secure increased public control over public investment in the railways by ensuring the Sustainable Transport Authority (STA) takes responsibility for the allocation of public funds intended for new developments (as distinct from repair and renewal). As part of this we will prioritise modernisation and development of the East and West Coast mainlines, and a new high-speed East Coast mainline between Aberdeen, London and the new Channel Tunnel Rail Link.

    Seek to restructure Railtrack. We will ask the Competition Commission to review Railtrack’s activities under a public interest reference so that a suitable restructuring can be imposed on the company. We believe that any changes must simplify the structure of our railway system by using the STA to reduce the number of franchises, and by encouraging Railtrack to pass responsibility for track renewal and repair to the major train operating companies.

    Simplify regulation. We will bring together the role of the Rail Regulator and SRA within the STA. We will also seek to alter the current bureaucratic penalty system into a simpler scheme of incentives. In addition, the range of fares that can only be altered with agreement from the fares regulator (at present the SRA) will be widened. We will create a new independent body within the STA with responsibility for timetabling.

    Improve railway safety. We will implement the recommendations made by Lord Cullen’s inquiry into Railway Safety. We will create a new Railway Safety body within the STA to take regulation of railway safety. We will also create an accident investigation body modelled on the Air Accident Investigation Branch.

    Modernise the London Underground. We believe that the best way to modernise the Underground, without compromising safety, is through a not-for-profit, public interest company funded through bonds.

