SNP will make Highland voice heard at Westminster
Mon, 23/03/2015 - 16:27

 

Ahead of the Scottish Government's Cabinet meeting in Inverness this evening, the SNP has today set out what a vote for the SNP at the coming Westminster election will mean for Highland areas. 

To ensure our northern cities are supported, SNP MPs will seek the creation of a £300 million Scottish Cities Fund - and similar Northern Cities and Welsh Cities funds. 

The SNP will also seek to boost Scotland’s vital tourism sector through pushing for the early devolution of Air Passenger Duty in order to encourage more direct flights to Scotland and SNP MPs will support a reduction in VAT for the hospitality sector – levelling the playing field with other parts of the EU and helping to create as many as 10,000 jobs. 

And SNP MPs will seek to boost Scotland’s rural economy by fighting for farmers in Scotland to receive a greater share of Common Agricultural Policy convergence uplift that only accrues to the UK because of farming conditions in Scotland. Currently the UK receives €223 million from the EU because of the nature of Scotland’s farm land, but only a fraction of this funding comes to farmers in Scotland. 

Commenting, SNP Leader Nicola Sturgeon said: 

“The Highlands and Islands need strong voices at Westminster and I have no doubt that the fantastic candidates the SNP are putting forward will provide that representation if elected. By electing a strong team of SNP MPs, we have the opportunity to get a better deal for people across the Highlands.” 

SNP candidate for Inverness, Nairn, Badenoch and Strathspey Drew Hendry said: 

“This election is a major opportunity for communities across the Highlands to ensure that their voices are heard at Westminster by electing an SNP MP who will do more for the area than the Lib Dems ever have. 

“While Danny Alexander’s biggest impact on the Highlands has been to give the go ahead to repeated Tory cuts, the SNP have made clear that we will never prop up a Tory Government. 

“The SNP is determined to deliver for the Highlands and a key part of that will be by pursuing the city deal to support the growth of places like Inverness.

“And SNP MPs will act to secure a better deal for the tourism sector that is so important to the economy of the Highlands. By reducing VAT for the hospitality sector and accelerating the devolution of APD, thousands of jobs could be created across Scotland.” 

SNP candidate for Caithness, Sutherland and Easter Ross Dr. Paul Monaghan added: 

“The SNP will also use our influence at Westminster to push for a fairer deal for Scotland’s farmers, ending the ludicrous situation where only a fraction of the EU funding for Scotland’s farming sector comes to Scotland. Together with reform of Scotland’s land laws, the potential exists for major positive change for our agricultural sector. 

“We will also build on the potential of the Far North to become a world leader in clean and renewable energy schemes. 

“Only a strong team of SNP MPs will fight for a better deal from Westminster for the Highlands and ensure that the voice of rural communities in the Highlands cannot be ignored.”