
Labour's rent control plans will make things worse for tenants
26 April, 2015 @ 10:24 AM

Labour's rent control announcements, including plans to cap rents so they cannot rise beyond the rate of inflation in certain tenancies, are ill thought through and will make things even worse for tenants.

Rather than reduce rents, Labour’s plans will lead to huge rent hikes every three years, higher rents overall and fewer available rental properties.

The plans have not been well received by some members of the housing industry.

Labour say they want to help ‘Generation Rent’ but even charity ‘Generation Rent’ has slammed the plans, saying they won't bring down rents and will incentivise landlords to evict tenants. 

Housing expert Henry Pryor commented: “Don't be taken in by Labour rent controls, it won't make it cheaper, increase supply” but “it will distort the market”.

key_rentalcontrol.jpg

This shows that the only way to keep rents under control and stop house prices from spiralling is to follow the Liberal Democrat plan to build 300,000 homes.

As well as this ambitious house building target, we will help young people meet their tenancy deposits and support first-time home buyers build up a share in a property through renting.

In government, Labour failed to build anywhere near enough homes – house building fell to levels not since since the 1920s.

Only Liberal Democrats can be trusted to ensure everyone has the opportunity to have a decent home at a cost they can afford. 

Liberal Democrat Campaign Spokesperson Lord Paddick said:

“Labour’s plans are ill thought through and will make things even worse for tenants.

“The only way to keep rents under control and stop house prices from spiralling is to follow the Lib Dem plan of building 300,000 homes.

“Rather than reduce rents, Labour’s plans will lead to huge rent hikes every three years, higher rents overall and fewer available rental properties.

“Labour consistently failed to support house building in government and their inaction left millions struggling to pay their rent.

“Instead of announcing unworkable, populist policy, Labour should be straight with the public about the fact that they will simply not build the homes we desperately need.”

 
