Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228060034.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

WORKERS AND UNIONS

Over the past 13 years, we have legislated to lift regulatory burdens from the shoulders of those who create jobs in Britain. To industry's relief, we shunned the job-destroying European Social Charter. And we reject Labour's job-destroying notion of a national minimum wage.

We have also legislated five times to transform industrial relations, returning power from militants to ordinary union members. As a result, the number of days lost each year through strikes has fallen from an average 12.9 million in the 1970s to less than a million last year - the lowest figure since records began a century ago.

Labour would disrupt industrial peace by weakening the power of management and the courts. They propose to take away the courts' most important sanction - the power to take over a union's assets.

Sympathy strikes would be legalised by Labour, and employers would be prevented from dismissing strikers who broke their contracts.

The workers' rights we believe in are those which enhance individuals' status and opportunities. We believe people should be informed and consulted by employers about issues which affect their work. No one should be allowed to deduct trade union fees automatically from an employee's pave without written authorisation. Individuals must be given greater rights to belong to the union of their choice.

We also believe strongly that employers, employees and customers should not have their lives and businesses disrupted by wildcat strikes. In the new Parliament, we will legislate to enforce and enhance these rights.

    We will require employers to give everyone who works for them for more than eight hours a week a clear 'written statement of their terms and conditions of employment.
    We will make automatic deduction of union membership dues without 'written authorisation unlawful.
    We will take measures to give individuals greater freedom in choosing a union.
    We will legislate to require that all pre- strike ballots are postal and subject to independent scrutiny, and that at least seven days' notice of a strike is given after a ballot.
    People who use public services will have the right to restrain the disruption of those services by unlawful industrial action. 

