Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060035.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------


Combat climate change
We will reduce carbon emissions in line with our international commitments. We will promotesmall- and large-scale low carbon energy production, including nuclear, wind, clean coal andbiogas. We will safeguard our energy security by ensuring there is sufficient spare capacity inthe energy system. We will make it easier to go green, including through a ‘Green Deal’ to cuthousehold energy bills.

Labour’s failure on climate change has beenstark. Strong rhetoric has not been matchedby effective action – it took the longest anddeepest recession for sixty years for Labour toachieve any significant reduction in the UK’scarbon emissions. We need to generate 15 percent of our energy from renewables by 2020,but we have one of the worst records of any EUnation when it comes to renewable energy. Ournational security is threatened by a loomingenergy crunch in which a third of our electricitygenerating capacity will close, and most of ourgas will need to be imported by 2020.Yet Britain is uniquely placed to be the world’sfirst low carbon economy: we have the naturalresources to generate wind and wave power,a skilled workforce trained in the energyindustry, a hi-tech manufacturing sector and agreen financial centre in the City of London.We urgently need to make this transitionin order to strengthen our economy, helpguarantee our energy security and protect ourenvironment for future generations.

Ambitious goals for reducingemissions
Climate change is a global phenomenon, andthat means the world must work together toreduce harmful emissions. A Conservativegovernment will work towards an ambitiousglobal deal that will limit emissions and makeavailable substantial financial resources foradaptation and mitigation.As part of our commitment to move towardsa low carbon future, we can confirm our aimof reducing carbon emissions by 80 per centby 2050. In government, we will lead from thefront by delivering a 10 per cent cut in centralgovernment emissions within twelve monthsand by working with local authorities andothers to deliver emissions reductions.Promote low carbon energyproduction
The way our energy is produced andtransmitted is stuck in the last century. AConservative government will transform this‘dumb’, unresponsive network and create an‘electricity internet’ – a highly interactivenetwork, based on a new smart grid that willinteract with smart meters in people’s homes,to manage supply and demand. This will allowa huge increase in renewable power, and fargreater choice for consumers.To limit harmful emissions from UK powerstations, we will take steps to encourage newlow carbon energy production, including:• introducing an Emissions PerformanceStandard to limit the levels of greenhousegases our power stations produce;• clearing the way for new nuclear powerstations – provided they receive no publicsubsidy;• creating four carbon capture and storageequippedplants, taking coal – one of themost polluting fuels of all – and transformingit into a low carbon fuel of the future;• delivering an offshore electricity grid inorder to support the development of anew generation of offshore wind power,and establishing at least two MarineEnergy Parks;• giving local authorities the power to establishnew district heating networks which usebiogas and other low carbon fuels;• allowing communities that host renewableenergy projects like wind farms to keep theadditional business rates they generate for sixyears; and,• giving incentives for smaller-scale energygeneration, including capturing heat that iscurrently wasted.Safeguard the UK’s energysecurityBritain has had no clear energy policy forthirteen years. A succession of eleven energyMinisters and eight Secretaries of State withresponsibility for energy has left our policymuddled and put our energy security atrisk. Britain needs an energy policy that isclear, consistent and stable. That means thatMinisters will be unambiguously responsiblefor determining energy policy and deliveringan Annual Energy Statement to Parliamentto set a clear direction for energy policy. Tosafeguard our energy security, we will reformthe energy regulator Ofgem so that:• it focuses on executing energy policy;• it is tasked with monitoring the sparecapacity in the energy market and makingprovisions for additional capacity whererequired; and,
