Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228020021.txt

Party Manifesto: Labour (UK) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

25 steps to a better Britain.

These are our ambitions for Britain ? and how they can be achieved. Clear in our values, confident in our policies, we seek a new mandate from the British people.
We are proud of our record in government. But we are not yet satisfied. Labour is the party of reform and we fight this election as agents of change in Britain.
Change to our economy, so more people share the benefits of growth. Change in our public services, so that they better advance equality of opportunity. Change in our welfare system, so that we extend security, responsibility and independence. Change to tackle crime and its causes. Change to deepen our democracy. Change to Britain?s role in the world.
The Conservatives were rejected in 1997 because they had failed. The national debt had doubled; crime had doubled; we were 42nd in the world education league; one in five households was on benefit; and we were marginalised in Europe.
Yet instead of learning, the Conservatives have become more dogmatic, more extreme, more divided. They are worse than ever.
The British people now face a choice. New Labour stands in the political mainstream, rooted in the best values of the British people. The Conservatives have veered to extreme positions.
This election will decide whether we continue the policies that have brought us economic stability, steady growth, investment in public services and targeted tax cuts for children and families, or whether we lurch back to boom and bust. It will decide whether we put our schools, hospitals and police officers first, or put them second after unaffordable tax cuts. It will decide whether we modernise the criminal justice system. It will decide whether we stand for a positive engagement with Europe and the wider world, or retreat to the sidelines.
We want everyone to vote in this election. But before you do, think of your job; think of your mortgage; think of your school and hospital; think of your children and your parents; think of police and crime prevention, think of the choice of leadership.
Think of who you want to succeed in Britain ? the many or the few.
There is still much to do with new Labour ? and a lot for you to lose under the Conservatives.
The choice is clear: for an ambitious and confident Britain, the choice is Labour.
The contract delivered
In the 1997 Labour manifesto Tony Blair said: ?We set out in the manifesto that follows ten commitments, commitments that form our bond of trust with the people. Judge us on them.
Have trust in us and we will repay that trust. This is our contract with the people.? This is a summary of Labour?s record since 1997. For more information on Labour?s policies, please visit our website at www.labour.org.uk, or contact your local Labour campaign team.
 1. Education will be our number one priority, and we will increase the share of national income spent on education as we decrease it on the bills of economic and social failure.
The record: Key Stage 2 results for literacy and numeracy reached 75 per cent (up 12 per cent since 1997) and 72 per cent (up 10 per cent since 1997) in 2001. GCSE and A-level results have also improved. This September there will be no five-, six- and seven-year-olds in class sizes over 30. We have cut the costs of debt and unemployment by nearly F9 billion per year. Education spending has risen from 4.7 per cent of national income to 5 per cent this year.
2. There will be no increase in the basic or top rates of income tax.
The record: We cut the basic rate of income tax to 22p in April 2000 and introduced the 10p band in April 1999. There has been no increase in the top rate of income tax. The direct tax burden on a single earner family on average earnings with two children is the lowest since 1972.
3. We will provide stable economic growth with low inflation and promote dynamic and competitive business and industry at home and abroad.
The record: Net borrowing in every year from 1997 to 2003-04 is forecast to be lower than in any Tory year from 1992-93 to 1996-97.
Inflation has been consistently under control and on target. Economic growth has been steady, averaging 2.75 per cent a year since 1997. Living standards are on average about 10 per cent higher in real terms than in 1997.
4. We will get 250,000 young unemployed off benefit and into work.
The record: Over 280,000 unemployed young people have been helped into work by Labour?s New Deal. There are over one million more jobs in the economy than in 1997. Youth unemployment now stands at its lowest level since 1975, longterm unemployment among under-25s is down 75 per cent. Unemployment is at its lowest level for 25 years.
5. We will rebuild the NHS, reducing spending on administration and increasing spending on patient care.
The record: The next four years will see the biggest-ever sustained increase in NHS spending. Over F1 billion will have been released from administration by next year. The NHS is treating 620,000 more in-patients and is seeing over 650,000 more outpatients than in 1996-97. There are 17,100 more nurses and 6,700 more doctors than in 1997. There are 124,000 fewer people on waiting lists.
6. We will be tough on crime and tough on the causes of crime, and halve the time it takes persistent juvenile offenders to come to court.
The record: The British Crime Survey shows that overall crime fell by 10 per cent from 1997 to 1999. Investment is now rising. The time from arrest to sentence for persistent young offenders is down from 142 days to 89 days ? on track to halve the time within the five years promised in 1997.
7. We will help build strong families and strong communities, and lay the foundations of a modern welfare state in pensions and community care.
The record: Child benefit has been raised by over 25 per cent for the first child. The Children?s Tax Credit is worth up to F520 a year. We have introduced parental leave and rights to holidays.
We have extended maternity leave. F4.5 billion extra in real terms is being spent this year on pensioners. The basic state pension will rise to F75.50 for single pensioners and F120.70 for pensioner couples next year, while the minimum income guarantee is helping over 1.6 million of the poorest pensioners. TV licence fees have been abolished for the over-75s, with free access to national museums and galleries for children and pensioners.
8. We will safeguard our environment, and develop an integrated transport policy to fight congestion and pollution.
The record: With the private sector, we will invest a record F180 billion in transport infrastructure over the next ten years. We will achieve a 23 per cent cut in greenhouse gas emissions. We have legislated to promote protection for and access to the countryside.
A F1.6 billion strategy for farming and rural enterprise will redirect subsidies to promote growth and the environment.
9. We will clean up politics, decentralise political power throughout the United Kingdom and put the funding of political parties on a proper and accountable basis.
The record: The funding of political parties, campaign expenditure and conduct of referendums is now regulated. For the first time the UK has a Freedom of Information Act. The Scottish Parliament, Welsh Assembly and Northern Ireland Assembly are now up and running, while local democracy has been returned to the people of London. The first stage of reform of the House of Lords has reduced the number of hereditary peers to fewer than 100.
10. We will give Britain the leadership in Europe which Britain and Europe need.
The record: Labour has negotiated successfully for Britain in Europe. Our rebate is protected, enlargement is being taken forward. We have led the debate on European economic reform and on the development of a European defence capacity rooted in NATO structures. In Kosovo, our armed forces played a leading role in standing up against ethnic cleansing. Britain strong in the world Strong and safe communities Fast, high-quality healthcare A modern welfare state Jobs. Interest rates. Education. Health. Crime. The choice at this election is clear? to make more progress or to dismantle the foundations laid since 1997. This manifesto sets out Labour?s ambitions for Britain?and how they will be achieved. 
