Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228020012.txt

Party Manifesto: Labour (UK) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------


The arts and sports are key to our quality of life.

They matter for their own sake. Millions make their living out of their creativity. Government can and must make sure the opportunities are there.
But, for the last 20 years, under-investment, misplaced priorities, and lack of organisation held back access and excellence.
Since 1997 this has begun to change. We have started to invest and to reform the system.
Investment in theatre develops the film and television stars of tomorrow; investment in sport will produce the Olympic and Paralympic medal winners of 2012.
Culture and sport should not be seen as peripheral issues ? they are vital to our identity and enjoyment as a country. We are pledged to the investment necessary to expand access and excellence together in culture and sport, building on excellence in film and broadcasting.

Sport.

The performance of British athletes at the Sydney tackle climate change Culture and sport Cultural heritage? an extra F10 million a year has been allotted to regional galleries, such as the Lowry in Salford Sporting chance? Labour is committed to a sports entitlement for all children
Employment for all is Labour?s goal, with help for young people from the New Deal Our ten-year goals
Sustain a higher percentage of people in work than ever before, as we seek full employment in every region.
Child poverty halved and pensioner poverty tackled, as we extend opportunity for all children and security for all pensioners.
Our next steps:
- An ?Employment First? interview for everyone coming on to benefits.
- Expanded support for children through tax and benefit reform.
- Extend and increase paid maternity leave and introduce paid paternity leave.
- New pension credit for lower- and middle-income pensioners, and the Winter Fuel Payment retained.
- F900 million Neighbourhood Renewal Fund for jobs, education and crime Prevention.


