Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228010002.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Health

More staff, faster NHS treatment

Health is a fundamental freedom. No one can fulfil their potential without the best possible health. We will prioritise investment to cut waiting times. But we also believe that it is best to improve health by preventing illness, tackling pollution and reducing poverty.

Liberal Democrats will:

    Cut waiting times by recruiting 27,500 more nurses, 4,600 more doctors, and 10,250 more professionals allied to medicine.

    Cut waiting times by retaining more staff through increasing pay for the worst paid NHS staff by an average of £1000 each per year.

    Cut waiting times by providing an additional 10,000 beds.

    Keep people healthy by investing in scanning equipment and abolishing charges for dental and eye checks.

    End the scandal of elderly and long-term patients having to pay for long-term personal care costs

The NHS has suffered for decades from under-investment, most notably during the eighteen years of the Thatcher and Major Governments. Labour promised to save the NHS. Instead, they spent three years unnecessarily locked into the Conservative spending plans which caused the problem in the first place. The new NHS plan falls far short of Tony Blair's declared aim of bringing health spending in Britain up to the levels of our European neighbours.

The NHS still lacks the capacity to give patients the first-class treatment which they deserve. It is short of staff, beds, hospitals and residential homes. Liberal Democrats offer something different based on clear and distinct priorities. Our starting point is that prevention is better than cure.

It is also important to give professionals greater freedom to do their jobs. Labour has tried to control far too much of the NHS from the centre. The Conservatives’ attempt to apply market principles produced inefficiency and inequity. Liberal Democrats will cut the role of Whitehall back and give doctors and managers the freedom to get on and run the NHS without political interference.

