Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030156.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

Championing responsible lending
Thu, 29/04/2010 - 11:52

Commenting on a visit to Livingston Credit Union today (Thursday) SNP
Finance Secretary, John Swinney MSP, stressed the importance of
responsible lending  and protecting the vulnerable as he joined
Livingston candidate Lis Bardell.

The SNP manifesto includes commitments to encourage people back into
work
without penalising them, to increase the pension and minimum wage in
line
with  earnings and to protect attendance allowance.

Commenting Mr Swinney said:

In the next Parliament we need to protect Scotlands vulnerable from
the cuts agendas of the London parties.

SNP candidates like Lis Bardell will put the interests of Scots at the
heart of the next Parliament.

Only this week weve seen families affected by Farepak receive only 15p
per pound for the millions they lost  after the Labour Government
failed
to protect their interests.

In the face of redundancy and recession many more people are lured into
entering unaffordable debts we might sooner expect to see from
unscrupulous loan sharks. Its societys most vulnerable are bearing the
brunt of Labours recession in a vicious cycle of debt and inflated
interest rates and borrowing.

In our manifesto the SNP has pledged to protect societys most
vulnerable. The SNPs priority is to help Scots weather the economic
storm
by cutting the things that matter least so that we can protect the
things that matter most.

We want to see financial support for pensioners increase in line with
earnings, and real incentives into work rather than benefits plans that
penalise people for getting jobs.

SNP Candidate in Livingston Lis Bardell said

It is by voting SNP in this election that Scottish people can help
vulnerable people in Scotland during the economic crisis. In a balanced
parliament a strong block of Scottish MPs could champion consumer rights
to protect against inflated interest rates and concentrate on
protecting
the things that mean the most to Scottish people.

The farepak scandal shows how little Labour has really done for people
hit by the financial crisis, and if elected as a local champion for
Livingston I will work to ensure the vulnerable are protected in the
next Parliament."
Filed under:

    Elections
    SNP


