Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040162.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Tories, Labour and Lib-Dems Put Wars, EU Membership and Foreign Aid before Employment for Britons
April 21, 2010

The news that an estimated 600,000 public sector jobs will be cut after the election has highlighted the fact that all three Westminster parties would prefer to spend your tax money on wars, EU membership and foreign aid rather than keeping Britons in work.

According to warnings issued by economists, some 600,000 public sector jobs will be lost over the next five years no matter which party wins the general election.

The Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) has warned that jobs for nurses, doctors and policemen will also be cut given the scale of the spending cuts needed to balance the deficit.

The CIPD says that 250,000 jobs are expected to go in local government, 100,000 in the NHS, 50,000 in quangos and at least 50,000 in the Civil Service.

Latest unemployment figures show that youth unemployment has reached nearly a million (915,000).

More than a million jobs have been lost in the private sector since April 2008. All three Westminster parties have said that public spending cuts of at least 15 percent are likely.

According to reports, John Philpot, chief economic adviser to the CIPD, has suggested that at least 580,000 jobs will go in the public sector by 2015.

Under the Conservatives there could be a further 100,000 job cuts, Mr Philpot was quoted as saying.

Labour and the Liberal Democrats would be more likely to opt for tax rises if jobs cuts became too sensitive, he told a newspaper.

The same media source quoted Colin Talbot, Professor of Governance at Southampton University, as saying that up to 100,000 jobs in the NHS could also go. I cant see how they can cut the number of jobs needed from the NHS without cutting frontline services.

Meanwhile, all three Westminster parties have endorsed an increase in the foreign aid budget to 0.7 percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) which, at current levels, translates to 13 billion per year.

All three Westminster parties have also committed themselves to continued membership of the European Union, which according to the Taxpayers Alliance, costs Britain 118 billion every year.

This is equivalent to 1,968 for every man, woman and child in Britain today.

According to figures put out by MigrationwatchUK, immigration costs Britain around 13 billion per year.

In addition, the ongoing asylum racket costs British taxpayers a further 4 billion per year.

Finally, and possibly most appallingly, all three Westminster parties are committed to waging war in Afghanistan, which by the Governments own estimates, costs 5 billion per year. There is no end date in sight for British involvement in that conflict.

Only the British National Party calls for an end to all expenditure which is not in Britains interests.

It is little short of treason to spend billions of pounds on foreign adventures, immigration and war, when hundreds of thousands of British people stare unemployment in the face.

The time has come to put British interests first. The time has come to vote BNP.

Posted in DEFENCE, FINANCE, National News | Comments (55)

