Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030178.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

Only a vote for SNP can protect Scotland
Mon, 03/05/2010 - 12:05

SNP leader Alex Salmond is today (Mon) making a whistle-stop rail tour
of key constituencies, as the election campaign enters its final days.

Mr Salmond, who will visit seats including Dundee West, Ochil and
Falkirk, said the Tories' admission that they plan to use votes for
other London parties as a Scottish mandate for any Conservative
administration had handed the initiative to the SNP.

Mr Salmond said: "The momentum is with the SNP as we count down to
polling day, and we intend to push home that advantage in the final days
of the campaign. Labour's campaign has imploded, with voters deserting
them - and only the SNP can protect Scotland from the cuts agenda of all
the London parties.

"The Tories have now admitted that they would see support for Labour
and the Liberals in Scotland as a pro-Union vote that the Conservatives
would try to use as a mandate to rule in Scotland, even if they have no
Scots MPs. And that is something people contemplating a vote for Labour
or the LibDems should bear in mind.

"Scotland has moved on from the days when the Tories tried to run
the country against the wishes of the vast majority of Scots. We have
our own Parliament and our own Government now, and there will be no
turning the clock back.

"By saying they will effectively depend on Labour and Lib Dem seats
in Scotland for any mandate, the Tories have handed the initiative to
the SNP in the last days of this campaign.

"The message is now
crystal clear - only the SNP can protect Scotland, and a vote for any of
the other parties simply plays into the hands of those who intend to
slash the nation's budget.

"We are asking the voters who are deserting Labour not just to sit
at home, but to come out and vote for SNP local and national champions
who will help protect their communities and the country as a whole from
the savage cuts agenda of all the London parties.

"A balanced parliament can be the bulwark against those cuts. In the
last few days of this campaign, there is everything to play for in
Scotland - and if Scots voters want a balanced parliament, redolent with
opportunity for Scotland, they should vote SNP."
Filed under:

    Elections
    SNP


