Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228050013.txt

Party Manifesto: Green (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

health
Restoring national healthCompassion in healthcare and the preventionof illness should be at the forefront of ourhealthcare service.We would:• Maintain a publicly funded, publiclyprovided health service, and oppose NHSprivatisation and treating healthcareas a market.• Decentralise healthcare responsibility tolocal government, ensure that minimumservice levels and national guidelines areprovided to prevent a postcode lottery, andoppose further health service centralisation.• Keep the health service free – abolishprescription charges, reintroduce free eyetests and NHS dental treatment for all, andensure NHS chiropody is widely available.• In particular, maintain the principle of afree NHS by implementing in England andWales the scheme that provides free socialcare to the elderly in Scotland. If the Scotscan do it, so can the rest of us. This would bephased in, costing about £3bn in 2010 risingto £8bn pa, and could create 120,000 jobs.• Ensure that all cost-effective treatmentsare available to all patients who need them.• Patient safety is essential – to improve thiswe will regulate all healthcare practitionersand therapists.• Ensure that all medicines meet safety standards,are properly labelled with ingredientsand have information on side-effects.• Make available on the NHS complementarymedicines that are cost-effective and have been
shown to work. More NHS dental care ratherthan the mass fluoridation of drinking water.• Provide accessible, local community healthcentres that provide a wide range of services,including out-of-hours care, and are anadditional tier of healthcare rather than areplacement for your GP.• End phony patient choice. For most of uspatient choice is much less important thangetting good treatment at our local hospitalor health centre – which is often, for many,the only practical choice.• End mixed-sex accommodation in hospitals.• Oppose a two-tier health service.The quality of your care should not dependon the depth of your pocket.• Treat patients with dignity. Patients haveboth rights and responsibilities – they arenot customers who can come and go.Their dignity should be recognised, but theyshould also treat NHS staff with respect.• Provide the right to an assisted deathwithin a rigorous framework of regulation,and in the context of the availability of thehighest level of palliative care.• Support the ban on smoking in enclosedpublic spaces.• Use increased taxes on alcohol and tobaccoto fund overall real growth in the mediumterm of at least 1.2% per annum in the NHSbudget.

Prevention is better than cure, and part of preventionis greater equalityThe Green Party believes in a much stronger emphasis on prevention of ill health, via livinghealthier lives and greater equality. This shows how, unlike other parties, our policies arewoven together into a coherent whole.We cannot have an effective preventive approach, and thus a long-term-thinking ‘health’ service,unless we encourage healthier eating, more exercise, a lower-stress, slower-living society, aserious reduction in environmental pollutants, and greater access to tranquil countryside.And we recognise the connection between mental and physical well-being.Simply making our society more equal will improve our health, without spending a pennyextra on the NHS. Life expectancy, infant mortality, low birth-weight and self-rated healthare worse in more unequal societies. Mental illness is much more common in more unequalcountries. Drug addiction is more common in more unequal societies. Obesity is less of aproblem in more equal societies like Japan and worst in the most unequal ones like the US.Better health is not a matter of ever-increasing spending on the NHS. A surer route, whichcan’t be disrupted by the need to bail out bankers, is to support simple things like good food,less competition and less stress.

Brighton Pavilion candidate Caroline Lucas tackles alcohol-relatedhealth and disorder problemsFor every 100,000 residents of Brighton, 36 will die from alcohol-related causes this year.Pressure from Brighton Pavilion candidate Caroline Lucas and Green councillors led to a newrange of measures being taken by the council to protect people, and especially young people,from alcohol abuse. Now local pubs and off-licences have been formally requested to stopselling super-strength lager, to stop loss-leading practices and to adopt a ‘Challenge 25’ policyto curtail underage drinking.

