Text ID:
uk_pm_el_83_228020014.txt

Party Manifesto: Lab (uk) - National Elections 1983
-------------------------------------

Helping families

Labour will give families a better deal. Our first priority will be to help families with children in order to support them in the task of parenthood. The Tories refuse to accept the wide variety in the type and size of families. Their policies restrict choice for members of families - in particular they reduce the freedom of men and women to choose whether to work or to stay at home and look after their families. At the same time, Tory policy has trapped more and more families in poverty through a combination of means-tested benefits and a tax system which bites hardest on the lowest paid.

We aim to recast the tax and benefit system, so as to redistribute resources to families with children. Our priority is child benefit. We will increase it by £2.00 a week, make it index-linked, and subsequently improve it in real terms, as resources allow. In the longer term, we shall aim to raise child benefit to the level of child support given to those on long-term benefits. We shall also restore the rights to weekly payment of child benefit; increase the maternity grant to £100; and give extra help to one-parent families.

We shall continue to help family budgets throughout the parliament:

    By increasing personal tax allowances - thus taking the poorest families out of the tax net;
    By making further increases in child benefit;
    By extending and improving the Invalid Care Allowance for those who care for disabled people. 

To help pay for these improvements we shall, over the lifetime of the parliament, phase out the married man's additional tax allowance for those under the age of retirement. Married couples with dependants will clearly benefit considerably from these changes - whilst the overall change for those without dependants, given the increases in personal allowance, will be small in any one year. However, we recognise that the loss of the allowance could cause financial difficulty for those couples where one of the spouses is not in work. We shall therefore consider how best to give support to these married couples where there are no dependants. Our aim is to end sex discrimination in taxation. We favour the principle of separate taxation and are examining how best to implement this.

A new deal for pensioners

We believe that elderly people, both today's pensioners as well as those who will benefit in future from Labour's pension scheme, should share as of right in our future prosperity. We shall:

    Uprate the pension in November 1983 by the full amount necessary to protect its real value against the rise in inflation to that date.
    Increase pensions, as soon as practicable, by £1.45 for a single person and £2.25 for a married couple. This is the amount pensioners have lost through the Tories breaking the link between pensions and earnings.
    Link pensions and average earnings, when these are rising faster than prices, and extend this to all benefits.
    Make progress towards our aim of a common pension age of 60.
    Double the Christmas bonus to £20.
    Phase out the TV licence for pensioners, during the lifetime of the Labour government.
    Give women the additional tax allowance for the elderly - the age allowance - at 60 instead of 65.
    Increase the Death Grant to £200 and extend it to cover all deaths.
    Introduce a Pension Schemes Act that will more adequately protect occupational pensions from the effects of inflation than they are at present; protect the position of early leavers; and extend to members of schemes, rights to participation and to greater information.
    Introduce, in areas where more favourable concessionary travel on local transport does not exist, a nationwide, off-peak, half-fares scheme for pensioners.
    Reform the harsh supplementary benefit rules introduced by the Tories.
    Reduce energy costs, for pensioners, both through support for conservation and by introducing new fuel allowances. 

Help for the unemployed

Working people are entitled to a decent income when they lose their job through circumstances beyond their control. An improved earnings-related supplement will once again be paid during the first months of unemployment. We shall end the discrimination whereby the unemployed are not entitled to the long-term rate of supplementary benefit after a year. We shall also consider how best to improve unemployment benefit for the longer-term unemployed so that large-scale supplementation is not required.

Help for people with disabilities

The last Labour government established, for the first time, the basis for eliminating poverty among disabled people. We intend to build on this. We will:

    Introduce a £10 a week blindness allowance, as a first step towards the introduction of a new cash benefit for disabled people, which will vary according to the degree of disability.
    Bring up the non-contributory invalidity pension to the level of the flat-rate contributory i nvalidity benefit, and restore the 5 per cent cut in invalidity benefit.
    Help the many disabled people who are capable of working part-time or for limited periods, but discouraged by present benefit regulations. We shall amend these to take account of their needs.
    Abolish the household duties test for housewives' non-contributory invalidity pension and extend invalid care allowance to all those women presently excluded.
    Continue to pay mobility allowance to existing recipients as they reach the age of 75.
    Ensure the full implementation of the Chronically Sick and Disabled Persons Act.
    For those who require long-term care - elderly, mentally handicapped, mentally ill and disabled people - develop services within both the health service and the local authority services, based on support for them and their families within the community.
    Make proper provision for the 20 per cent of children requiring various forms of special education. We will promote and provide the resources for the integration within mainstream schooling of those children whose needs are best met by ordinary schools. 

Labour will also aim to overcome discrimination against the disabled at work. We will reverse the Tory cuts, which have caused unnecessary suffering for people with disabilities. We shall increase the number of disablement resettlement officers; extend capital grants to adapt employer's premises; strengthen existing schemes - especially rehabilitation - to help disabled people back to work; and introduce new legislation, including quotas, to secure employment opportunities and job protection for disabled people.

A fairer benefit system

The new supplementary benefit scheme introduced by the Tories is harsh and unfair. We shall reform it. The families of those involved in industrial disputes will be entitled to full benefits - less any strike pay actually paid. We shall return to a sliding scale for assessing capital and the surrender value of insurance policies will be excluded. The anomaly which prevents some widows from claiming long-term supplementary benefit will be removed. We shall give extra help to families with children.

We shall improve staffing levels and physical conditions in social security offices so as to provide a more humane and responsive service for claimants. Many people fail to claim benefit to which they are entitled. We shall aim to increase take-up by improvements in publicity and the provision of advice.

All the social security changes made by the Tories, including the new sick pay and housing benefit schemes, will be reviewed. If they do not treat working people and their families fairly, we will replace them.

Forty years have elapsed since the Beveridge Report which led to the setting up of the National Insurance scheme by the post war Labour government. We shall conduct a thorough review of the scheme in the light of today's circumstances.

