Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228010007.txt

Party Manifesto: LibDem (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

your life. LiberalDemocrats believe ininvesting in and improvingthe quality of our publicservices. They are thecornerstone of a fair society,opening up opportunitiesand providing support andhelp when needed.

a fair deal and the help you need from publicservices
Liberal Democrats believe in investing in and improving the quality ofour public services. They are the cornerstone of a fair society, openingup opportunities and providing support and help when needed.Despite increased investment, there are still problems. Too many childrenleave school without the knowledge and skills to be successful. The NHSoften feels too remote and complex for patients to handle, while doctorsand nurses spend too much time trying to meet government targets. Andinequality is rife: in Britain today your chances in life are more determinedby your parents’ income than anywhere else in the developed world.We will provide a fair start for all children by giving schools the extramoney they need to cut class sizes and provide additional one-to-oneteaching, and by setting schools free to give all children the best possibleeducation. We will scrap unfair university tuition fees so everyone has thechance to get a degree, regardless of their parents’ income. We will helpthe NHS work better with the money it has by using the savings we havefound to protect front-line services, such as cancer treatment, mentalhealth care, maternity services, dementia care and preventive medicine.the best chance for every childLiberal Democrats want every child to receive an excellent education, tounlock children’s potential and to ensure that they can succeed in life.Too many children are still leaving school without the knowledge and skillsto be successful. And your family background still has a huge effect: atypical child from a poor family will fall behind a richer classmate by the ageof seven and never catch up. We will seek to ensure that all pupils leavingprimary and secondary education have the skills they need.
We will free schools from the present stranglehold of central governmentcontrol and encourage them to be genuinely innovative.We will invest additional money in the schools system to allow schools tocut class sizes, pay for one-to-one tuition, introduce catch-up classes, ortake other steps to ensure that every child has the best possible education.We will therefore ensure that every neighbourhood is served by an excellentlocal school or college.We will:• Increase the funding of the most disadvantaged pupils, around onemillion children. We will invest £2.5 billion in this ‘Pupil Premium’ toboost education opportunities for every child. This is additional moneygoing into the schools budget, and headteachers will be free to spendit in the best interests of children.• The extra money could be used to cut class sizes, attract the bestteachers, offer extra one-to-one tuition and provide for after-schooland holiday support. This will allow an average primary school to cutclasses to 20 and an average secondary school to introduce catch-upclasses for 160 pupils.• Improve discipline by early intervention to tackle the poor basiceducation of those children who are otherwise most likely tomisbehave and become demotivated.• Guarantee Special Educational Needs (SEN) diagnostic assessmentsfor all 5-year-olds, improve SEN provision and improve SEN trainingfor teachers.• Improve teacher training by increasing the size of the school-basedGraduate Teacher Programme and support the expansion of Teach
First to attract more top graduates into teaching. We will improvetraining for existing teachers over the course of their careers tokeep them up to date with best practice. We will seek to ensurethat science at Key Stage 4 and above is taught by appropriatelyqualified teachers.• Confront bullying, including homophobic bullying, and includebullying prevention in teacher training.• Set aside extra money for schools to improve the energy efficiencyof their buildings. They will pay back the loan over time from energysavings, creating a rolling fund to help insulate other public buildings.a better education: standards and the curriculumTo make the most of their years at school, every child needs an educationtailored to suit their abilities and interests. The restrictive National Curriculumand the arbitrary split between academic and vocational qualificationsisn’t working.We will:• Establish a fully independent Educational Standards Authority(ESA) with real powers to stand up to ministers and restoreconfidence in standards. The ESA would oversee the examinationssystem, the systems of school inspection and accountability, andthe detail of the curriculum. It would replace the Qualifications andCurriculum Development Agency and the Office of the Qualificationsand Examinations Regulator (OFQUAL), and include OFSTED, theschools inspectorate.• Replace the bureaucratic Early Years Foundation Stage with a
slimmed-down framework which includes a range of educationalapproaches and enough flexibility for every young child.• Axe the rigid National Curriculum, and replace it with a slimmeddown ‘Minimum Curriculum Entitlement’ to be delivered by everystate-funded school.• Scale back Key Stage 2 tests at age 11, and use teacherassessment, with external checking, to improve the qualityof marking.• Create a General Diploma to bring GCSEs, A-Levels and high qualityvocational qualifications together, enabling pupils to mix vocationaland academic learning.• Give 14–19 year-olds the right to take up a course at college,rather than at school, if it suits them better. This will enable allchildren to choose to study, for example, separate sciences ormodern languages at GCSE, or a vocational subject.• Seek to close the unfair funding gap between pupils in school sixthforms and Further Education colleges, as resources allow.• Scrap the Government’s plan to criminalise those who leaveeducation between ages 16 and 18.• Reform league tables to give parents more meaningful informationwhich truly reflects the performance of a school. Schools should beworking to get the best from all their pupils but government leaguetables are forcing them to focus on those who are just above orbelow the key C-grade borderline.

freeing schools for excellenceLiberal Democrats want an education system where all schools will havethe freedom to innovate, not be dictated to by central government.We will:• Introduce an Education Freedom Act banning politicians from gettinginvolved in the day-to-day running of schools. Teachers are held backby constant government interference which distracts from teaching.We would cut the size of the central department of Children, Schoolsand Families, and focus its activities on a few strategic priorities.Local authorities will not run schools, but will have a central strategicrole, including responsibility for oversight of school performance andfair admissions. They will be expected to intervene where schoolleadership or performance is weak.• Give all schools the freedom to innovate. We will ensure a levelplaying fi eld for admissions and funding and replace Academieswith our own model of ‘Sponsor-Managed Schools’. These schoolswill be commissioned by and accountable to local authorities andnot Whitehall, and would allow other appropriate providers, such aseducational charities and parent groups, to be involved in deliveringstate-funded education.• Allow parents to continue to choose faith-based schools within thestate-funded sector and allow the establishment of new faith schools.We will ensure that all faith schools develop an inclusive admissionspolicy and end unfair discrimination on grounds of faith whenrecruiting staff, except for those principally responsible for optionalreligious instruction.
• Reform the existing rigid national pay and conditions rules to giveschools and colleges more freedom, including in offering financialand other incentives to attract and retain excellent teachers, whileensuring that all staff receive the minimum national pay award.opportunities at college and universityThere should be a wide range of opportunities for everyone at the age of 16.Liberal Democrats believe that education is important for all young people,and will create, finally, a level playing fi eld between academic and vocational
courses. And we will ensure that adults who wish to study, including thosewanting to return to education later on in life, are able to do so without beingput off by the burden of debt. We will:• Scrap unfair university tuition fees for all students taking their firstdegree, including those studying part-time, saving them over £10,000each. We have a financially responsible plan to phase fees out oversix years, so that the change is affordable even in these difficulteconomic times, and without cutting university income. We willimmediately scrap fees for final year students.• Reform current bursary schemes to create a National Bursary Schemefor students, so that each university gets a bursary budget suited tothe needs of its students. These bursaries would be awarded bothon the basis of studying strategic subjects (such as sciences andmathematics) and financial hardship.• Replace wasteful quangos (the Skills Funding Agency and the HigherEducation Funding Council for England) with a single Council for AdultSkills and Higher Education.• Scrap the arbitrary target of 50 per cent of young people attendinguniversity, focussing effort instead on a balance of college education,vocational training and apprenticeships.• Start discussions with universities and schools about the design ofa trial scheme whereby the best students from the lowest achievingschools are guaranteed a place in Higher Education.• As part of our immediate job creation package, fund 15,000 newplaces on Foundation Degree courses and fully fund the off-the-jobcosts of adult apprenticeships, which currently have to be met byemployers, for one year.
• Better target spending on adult skills. We will end Train to Gainfunding for large companies, restricting the funds to the small andmedium-sized firms that need the support. The money saved willbe used to cover the course fees for adults taking a first Level 3qualification (such as A-levels or an adult apprenticeship), allowinga significant reduction in the overall budget.protecting and improving our NHSWe are proud of the NHS – it’s built on the basic British principle of fairness.Liberal Democrats believe that we can improve the NHS; in fact, we believeit’s our duty to do so at a time like this when budgets are tight. We all knowthat too much precious NHS money is wasted on bureaucracy, and doctorsand nurses spend too much time trying to meet government targets.So our first priority is to increase spending in some parts of the NHS by cuttingwaste in others. We have identified specific savings that can be made inmanagement costs, bureaucracy and quangos, and we will reinvest that moneyback into the health care you need. Because of the rising costs of treatmentsand an ageing population, there will be particular pressure on services likecancer treatment, mental health care, maternity services, and dementiacare; only by going through this process of finding savings elsewhere can weprotect these services in the coming years. The NHS is a huge system, andwe will make changes to ensure it works as effectively as possible.We will:• Give priority to preventing people getting ill by linking payments tohealth boards and GPs more directly to prevention measures.• Cut the size of the Department of Health by half, abolish unnecessaryquangos such as Connecting for Health and cut the budgets of the
rest, scrap Strategic Health Authorities and seek to limit the pay andbonuses of top NHS managers so that none are paid more than thePrime Minister.• Make the NHS work better by extending best practice on improvinghospital discharge, maximising the number of day case operations,reducing delays prior to operations, and where possible movingconsultations into the community.• Integrate health and social care to create a seamless service,ending bureaucratic barriers and saving money to allow people tostay in their homes for longer rather than going into hospital or longtermresidential care.• Use the money for Labour’s fl awed Personal Care At Home Billto provide guaranteed respite care for the one million carers whowork the longest hours. We will establish an independent commission,with cross-party support, to develop proposals for long-term careof the elderly.• Prioritise dementia research within the health research anddevelopment budget.• Improve access to counselling for people with mental healthproblems, by continuing the roll-out of cognitive and behaviouraltherapies.• Reduce the ill health and crime caused by excessive drinking. Wesupport a ban on below-cost selling, and are in favour of the principleof minimum pricing, subject to detailed work to establish how itcould be used in tackling problems of irresponsible drinking. We willalso review the complex, ill-thought-through system of taxation for
alcohol to ensure it tackles binge drinking without unfairly penalisingresponsible drinkers, pubs and important local industries.• Save lives and reduce pressure on NHS budgets by cutting airpollution. We will cancel plans for a third runway at Heathrow andother airport expansion in the South East, and reduce pollution fromvehicle exhausts through tighter regulation. We will aim to fully meetEuropean air quality targets by 2012.more control over the health care you needLiberal Democrats believe that one important way to improve the NHS is tomake care flexible, designed to suit what patients need, not what managerswant. And we believe that care would improve if local people had morecontrol over how their health services were run.The NHS often feels too remote and complex. Local services – especiallymaternity wards and accident and emergency departments – keep beingclosed, even though local people desperately want them to stay open. Peopleoften struggle to get convenient access to GP services, and poorer areas areless well served by the NHS, contributing to widening health inequalities.We will change this by:• Sharply reducing centralised targets and bureaucracy, replacingthem with entitlements guaranteeing that patients get diagnosis andtreatment on time. If they do not, the NHS will pay for the treatmentto be provided privately.• Putting front-line staff in charge of their ward or unit budgets,and allowing staff to establish employee trusts giving them realinvolvement and a say over how their service is run.
• Empowering local communities to improve health services throughelected Local Health Boards, which will take over the role of PrimaryCare Trust boards in commissioning care for local people, workingin co-operation with local councils. Over time, Local Health Boardsshould be able to take on greater responsibility for revenue andresources to allow local people to fund local services which needextra money.• Giving every patient the right to choose to register with the GP theywant, without being restricted by where they live, and the right toaccess their GP by email.• Ensuring that local GPs are directly involved in providing out-of-hourscare.• Reforming payments to GPs so that those who accept patients fromareas with the worst health and deprivation scores receive an extrapayment for each one they take.• Giving Local Health Boards the freedom to commission servicesfor local people from a range of different types of provider, includingfor example staff co-operatives, on the basis of a level playing fi eldin any competitive tendering – ending any current bias in favour ofprivate providers.quality care for all patientsWe all need to be assured that, if we become unwell, the care we get willbe of good quality. Most of all, we need to be confident that our safety comesfirst, and that the treatment we get doesn’t put us in more danger. We willintroduce a series of reforms to improve patient safety.

We will:• Require hospitals to be open about mistakes, and always tell patientsif something has gone wrong.• Make it illegal for a Local Health Board to allow a doctor to work inthe UK without passing robust language and competence tests.• Clamp down on anyone who is aggressive or abusive to staff inaccident and emergency departments. We would encourage betterworking relationships between hospitals and the local police toprovide an increased police presence at times of high risk, andincrease prosecutions. At the same time, we will ensure that problemdrinkers or substance abusers are referred for appropriate treatment.It is deeply disappointing that the Government has failed to provide adequatesupport for those affected by the contamination of blood products with HIV.A Liberal Democrat government will establish a working group involving patientgroups to determine appropriate levels of financial assistance.access to culture and sportLiberal Democrats believe that the arts are a central part of civic andcommunity life. They contribute to innovation, education, diversity, and socialinclusion, and the creative industries are one of the fastest growing sectorsof the economy. Britain’s culture and heritage play a vital role in attractingvisitors to the UK and boosting the very important tourism industry. We willfoster an environment in which all forms of creativity are able to flourish.We are proud that Britain is hosting the Olympic and Paralympic Gamesin 2012, and we support bids for other high-profile events such as the 2018World Cup – but we believe that grassroots sport is just as important. Wewill give people from all backgrounds and generations the opportunity toparticipate in sports.Liberal Democrats will:• Maintain free entry to national museums and galleries and open upthe Government Art Collection for greater public use.• Set up a ‘Creative Enterprise Fund’ offering training, mentoring andsmall grants or loans to help creative businesses get off the ground.
• Cut red tape for putting on live music. We will reintroduce therule allowing two performers of unamplified music in any licensedpremises without the need for an entertainment licence, allow licensedvenues for up to 200 people to host live music without the need foran entertainment licence, and remove the requirement for schoolsand hospitals to apply for a licence.• Reform the National Lottery. We will change the way the NationalLottery is taxed from a ticket tax to a gross profits tax, which isforecast to deliver more for good causes and the Exchequer.• Use cash in dormant betting accounts to set up a capital fund forimproving local sports facilities and supporting sports clubs.• Close loopholes that allow playing fields to be sold or built uponwithout going through the normal planning procedures.A strong and diverse media, free from government interference and pressureis essential to a free and democratic society. We will:• Ensure that the BBC remains strong, free from interference andsecurely funded, not least to provide impartial news, independent ofpolitical and commercial pressures. We will also ensure that the BBCdoes not undermine the viability of other media providers throughunfair competition based on its public funding and dominant position.• Support a diverse regional and local media. We will help to maintainindependent local sources of news and information by enablingpartnerships between TV, radio and newspaper companies to reducecosts, and by limiting publicly-subsidised competition for paidadvertising from local council free-sheets.

