Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060013.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

change the economy | ENSURE THE WHOLE COUNTRY SHARES INRISING PROSPERITY

Ensure the whole country shares in rising prosperityWe will increase the private sector’s share of the economy in all regions of the country, especiallyoutside London and the South East.

Too many areas of the UK lack a vibrantprivate sector and are too dependent on publicspending. These regional imbalances have gotworse over the last decade, despite billions ofpounds spent by the Regional DevelopmentAgencies (RDAs). Our aim is to increase theprivate sector’s share of the economy in everypart of the country by boosting enterprise andcreating a better business environment. Wewill work closely with local government, andwith the Scottish Parliament, Welsh Assemblyand Northern Ireland Assembly, to achievethis goal.Create a modern transportnetworkA rebalanced economy requires an extensiveand reliable infrastructure. But transport hasbeen a low priority for Labour, and the hassleof getting around is bad for business, bad forfamilies and bad for everyone’s quality of life.A Conservative government will begin workimmediately to create a high speed rail lineconnecting London and Heathrow withBirmingham, Manchester and Leeds. This isthe first step towards achieving our vision ofcreating a national high speed rail network to
join up major cities across England, Scotlandand Wales. Stage two will deliver two new linesbringing the North East, Scotland and Walesinto the high speed rail network.Because travel abroad is so important forour economy and for family holidays, weneed to improve our airports and reduce theenvironmental impact of flying. Our goal isto make Heathrow airport better, not bigger.We will stop the third runway and insteadlink Heathrow directly to our high speed railnetwork, providing an alternative to thousandsof flights. In addition, we will:• block plans for second runways at Stanstedand Gatwick; and,• reform Air Passenger Duty to encourage aswitch to fuller and cleaner planes.To improve life for commuters and encouragepeople to switch to lower carbon publictransport, we will reform our railways toprovide a better focus on tackling problemsthat matter most to passengers, such asovercrowding. We will grant longer, moreflexible rail franchises to incentivise privatesector investment in improvements like longertrains and better stations.
We support Crossrail and the electrification ofthe Great Western line to South Wales. We willturn the rail regulator into a powerful passengerchampion and reform Network Rail to make itmore accountable to its customers. And we willintroduce a moratorium on building on disusedrail lines still in public ownership, so they areavailable to be re-opened.Britain has the chance to lead the world inmaking our transport system greener. So wewill introduce incentives for electricity networkoperators to establish a new national carrecharging network, making it much easierfor drivers to move to electric and plug-inhybrid vehicles. We will support sustainabletravel initiatives that work best for localcommunities by:• giving the concerns of cyclists muchgreater priority;• encouraging partnerships betweenbus operators and local authorities; and,• helping people cut down on work-relatedtravel.We will stop central government fundingfor new fixed speed cameras, and switch tomore effective ways to make our roads safer,including authorising ‘drugalyser’ technologyfor use in testing for drug-driving. Wewill make companies that dig up our roadsaccountable for the congestion they cause andcrack down on rogue clampers. Councils willget more powers to get traffic flowing moresmoothly.We will consult on the introduction of a ‘FairFuel Stabiliser’. This would cut fuel dutywhen oil prices rise, and vice versa. It wouldensure families, businesses and the wholeBritish economy are less exposed to volatileoil markets, and that there is a more stableenvironment for low carbon investment.Spread prosperityWe want Britain to become a European hubfor hi-tech, digital and creative industries –but this can only happen if we have the rightinfrastructure in place. Establishing a superfastbroadband network throughout the UKcould generate 600,000 additional jobs and add£18 billion to Britain’s GDP.We will scrap Labour’s phone tax and insteadrequire BT and other infrastructure providersto allow the use of their assets to deliver superfastbroadband across the country. If necessary,we will consider using the part of the licencefee that is supporting the digital switchover tofund broadband in areas that the market alonewill not reach.We will give councils and businesses the powerto form their own business-led local enterprisepartnerships instead of RDAs. Where localcouncils and businesses want to maintainregionally-based enterprise partnerships, they
