Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228020016.txt

Party Manifesto: Labour (UK) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------


4. Strong and safe communities.

We all know the sort of Britain we want to live in ? a Britain where we can walk the streets safely and know our children are safe. We have a ten-year vision: a new social contract where everyone has a stake based on equal rights, where they pay their dues by exercising responsibility in return, and where local communities shape their own futures.
Overall crime is down ten per cent in Labour Britain, recorded crime down seven per cent, and police numbers are now rising.
Our strategy is clear and consistent ? tough on crime and tough on the causes of crime.
Our ten-year goal of reducing crime depends on reform of the criminal justice system at every level, from police to courts to prison ? to put crime reduction centre stage. And, because crime is changing, crime fighting has to change too ? to tackle repeat offending, drug-related crime and organised crime. We are investing to raise police numbers to their highest level ever.
Offenders must know they will be supervised in or out of prison until they can prove they have gone straight.
Safe communities reclaim their streets; then they can shape their own affairs. In the 19th century, local politics was the motor for economic and social change. Our purpose is simple: to create a Britain that is democratic, decentralised and diverse, with decisions always taken as close to the people as is consistent with efficiency and equity. Our ten-year goal is a new settlement with local government ? over finance, structures and services. Recorded crime doubled under the Conservatives: burglary went up 105 per cent, car crime 110 per cent, violent crime 182 per cent. The number of offenders caught, convicted and punished fell. The criminal justice system, especially for young offenders, was in disarray. Anti-social behaviour was unchecked.
And investment was falling.

The British Crime Survey shows crime down ten per cent in Labour?s first two and a half years, including a four per cent drop in violent crime.
Recorded crime is down seven per cent from 1997, domestic burglary down 28 per cent, car crime down 20 per cent. Investment in crime fighting is up. We have reversed the declining trend in police numbers, reformed youth justice, and supported every community to prevent crime and anti-social behaviour. We have reduced by seven weeks the time from arrest to sentence for persistent young offenders, and are on track to meet our pledge to halve the time by May 2002.
But we are not satisfied. Drug-related crime is a menace. Recorded violent crime has risen, partly because more domestic and racial violence is being reported. And new crimes are being committed ? fraud through the internet, human trafficking.
The only way to reduce crime is by being tough on crime and tough on its causes. Government can help families and communities prevent crime. But when people do commit crimes, we need an effective criminal justice system able to catch, punish and rehabilitate people.2
Supporting the police.

The foundation is our police force. Police numbers started falling in 1993. Our investment in 2000-01 increased the number of recruits by an extra 3,000, boosting the number of officers in training by 77 per cent over the previous year.
Now Labour pledges a further 6,000 extra recruits. Labour?s pledge is that over the next three years annual funding for the police will rise by F1.6 billion, to F9.3 billion.
We also need to create a more effective police service. Basic command units are the heart of modern policing, and local commanders and senior detectives should be properly trained and rewarded. Strong leadership, modern equipment and specialist training and expertise are all essential. We will bring in new arrangements for the development and appointment of chief officers. We will introduce a new national core curriculum for officers at every level. We will ensure that specialist detective expertise is built up using outside experts where necessary.
Labour will ensure more people see more police in the community. We will discuss with the police how those on the frontline might be rewarded for their skills, experience and commitment. We will promote co-operation across force boundaries for common services like training. We are also committed to a new independent police complaints commission.

Persistent offending.

About 100,000 persistent offenders, mostly young men, commit about half of all serious crimes. We need a new approach to catch, convict, punish and rehabilitate more of them:
? Youth offending teams will track up to 2,500 of the most persistent young offenders 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
? Every active offender will be on the DNA database by 2004.
? Persistent offending should lead to increased punishment. We will end the failed policy of repeat financial penalties; where offending continues, firmer measures will be taken. We will invest over F200 million over three years to reduce reoffending by those in custody.
Sentences will combine time in prison and in the community, with proper supervision after release for ex-prisoners. In time, all offenders will have their own plan for return to lawful life, starting in custody with drug treatment or literacy training.
? New Review Courts will ensure that offenders who breach the conditions of their sentence will get extra community service, more intensive supervision or custody. Those who break their bail can expect to go straight into custody for the remainder of their remand period.
? To deal with the most dangerous offenders of all ? those with a dangerous severe personality disorder ? we will pass new legislation and create over 300 more high-security prison and hospital places.
Our proposals are based on a simple principle: stay straight or you will stay supervised or go back inside. The continued modernisation of the probation, parole and prison services, so every offender gets punishment designed to minimise reoffending, will carry this forward. We will build on our youth justice reforms to improve the standard of custodial accommodation and offending programmes for 18- to 20-year-old offenders.

Crime in the community.

Broken windows, graffiti and litter all send a signal about lawlessness. Labour supports fines for anti-social behaviour and new powers to tackle unruly behaviour and kerb crawlers.
Every local authority should have an anti-social behaviour unit. We will tackle alcohol-related disorder, with an overhaul of licensing laws, greater flexibility over opening times, and tougher controls on rogue landlords. We will also streamline the system for removal of untaxed and abandoned cars.
Crime fighting now starts in every community thanks to new statutory Crime and Disorder Partnerships. Our Safe Communities Fund will target hundreds of neighbourhoods with the highest crime rates with extra crime-fighting investment. Domestic violence accounts for at least a quarter of all violent crime, so Labour is committed to expanding the safe hostel network.
Crime prevention requires that those most at risk of falling into a life of crime ? children excluded from school, teenagers leaving care ? are given real help and opportunity. That includes drugs education for every child at primary and secondary school, and youth inclusion schemes in high-crime areas. We will also take measures to tackle the problem of child pornography on the internet.

Drugs.

One of the biggest contemporary drivers of crime is drugs. Access to effective treatment is essential. Prisoners are already subject to compulsory testing and offered treatment where necessary, which has led to a 50 per cent cut in the number testing positive. Drug Testing and Treatment Orders ensure people punished in the community stay drug-free.
We are pledged to raise spending on drug treatment by 70 per cent by 2004. We will roll out drug testing to cover offenders at every stage of the system. People in prison for drugrelated offences will have to kick the habit before they are free from supervision on the outside. Drug dealers will be required to register with the police after leaving prison.
We will simplify the law on extradition to target organised crime including drug traffickers. The Criminal Assets Recovery Agency will target their ill-gotten gains. We will follow the money trail, through bureaux de change to offshore accounts, to convict them, and remove their money and passports.
Our ambition is to mobilise every neighbourhood against drugs. We will therefore ensure that crime-fighting partnerships, covering every locality, get over F200 million over the next three years to fight crime and drugs.
A modern criminal justice system.
The UK?s legal traditions are precious. But too much of our criminal law and the organisation of the courts are stuck in the past. Our ambition is to re-equip the criminal justice system to deliver justice for all ? the victims, the public and the defendant, with a short-term target of 100,000 more crimes ending in a criminal brought to justice. Our White Paper Criminal Justice: The Way Ahead set out our initial views on reform. The Auld enquiry will also make major recommendations.

Prosecution.

Despite an increase of 25 per cent since 1997, we have too few prosecutors. By 2004, Labour pledges 300 new prosecutors, including specialists in areas like serious and organised crime, paid on a level playing field with the defence. We will modernise and consolidate the whole criminal law system to promote public confidence and to speed up criminal proceedings.
Law reform is necessary to make provisions against corporate manslaughter.

Courts.

The current system, split between magistrates and crown courts, needs reform. A unified system, including lower or intermediate tiers of court, offers simplicity and flexibility. Lay magistrates as well as professional judges have their place in the system. We will remove the widely abused right of defendants alone to dictate whether or not they should be tried in crown court. For specialist cases such as those involving domestic violence or fraud, there is a strong case for specialist courts and specialist judges. We will also develop late sitting, sevenday- a-week courts in high-crime areas to ensure there is no delay in getting people through the criminal justice system. We have established a Judicial Commissioner to scrutinise the appointments process, and will take forward reform on the basis of experience.

Rules of evidence.

Our rules of evidence fail to trust the good sense of judges and jurors. Recent case law has extended the admissibility of evidence of previous conduct. If there is any remaining doubt, we will consider legislation to reinforce the judgment. Pending the findings of the Auld report, we see a strong case for a new presumption that would allow evidence of previous convictions where relevant. Currently only the prosecution must disclose all expert evidence and names of all witnesses. In the light of the Auld report, we will consider whether the defence should do so too. In addition, witnesses should be able to refer to their original statements in the witness box, as well as offer evidence by video-link.

Representation.

We have created the Community Legal Service and will extend it to 90 per cent of the population by April 2002. We will continue to pursue the principle of best value for the benefit of the taxpayer and criminal defendants in the Criminal Defence Service. We will examine reforms of the tribunal system in the light of the Leggatt Review. We will subject restrictive practices in the legal professions to the closest scrutiny to ensure both the professions and the courts serve the wider public interest.

Victims have rights.

In 1997, victims were the forgotten people in legal battles. That has begun to change. We have more than doubled the funding for Victim Support, taken powers to protect vulnerable witnesses in court, and prevented personal cross-examination by the defendant of rape victims. We now propose further action. First, victims will be given the legal right to present their views on the impact of the crime to the court and other criminal justice agencies before sentencing decisions. Second, prosecutors will be able to challenge defence pleas in mitigation of the crime. Third, we will legislate for a Victims? Bill of Rights to give support, protection, and rights to information and compensation to victims.
Labour believes that Britain can be a model of a multicultural, multi-racial society. We have made major legal change; now is the time to build the inclusive society in tune with British values.

Our commitment to protection for every citizen is expressed in the 1998 Human Rights Act. It ensures that British citizens are able to enforce rights in our own courts. Other legal change was necessary too. The Race Relations (Amendment) Act learns the legal lessons from the shocking death of Stephen Lawrence and places a positive duty on all public bodies to promote equal opportunity. We abhor racism and shall continue to implement the recommendations of the Macpherson report, including the reform of the ?double jeopardy? law for murder. The repeal of Section 28 of the 1988 Local Government Act was grossly misrepresented as an attempt to use teaching to promote particular lifestyles. We will ensure that such teaching continues to be prohibited, based on the provisions of the Learning and Skills Act, while removing discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation.
The UK now has the most comprehensive anti-discrimination legislation in Europe. But an inclusive, tolerant, open society, where people rise on their merits, depends on culture and action as well as law.

We now need to reduce the barriers ? to services, opportunities, institutions ? that still hold people back. This applies in the public and private sectors. There are too few black and Asian staff in key public services and, in almost all organisations, far too few in middle and senior grades. This is why we now have targets for the diversity of central government and other public services.
Voluntary and community organisations are key to Labour?s vision for Britain. From large national charities to local community groups and faith-based institutions, these sectors are a vital and diverse part of national life. We have changed the tax rules to encourage individuals and businesses to give to charity, supported initiatives to increase volunteering, involved voluntary and community groups in the design and delivery of key government programmes like Sure Start, and helped charities build up their capacity to do their job even better.
However, in other parts of the country there may be a stronger sense of regional identity and a desire for a regional political voice.
In 1997 we said that provision should be made for directly elected regional government to go ahead in regions where people decided in a referendum to support it and where predominantly unitary local government is established. This remains our commitment.


