Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060045.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

promote our national interest | one world conservatism

One World Conservatism
We will honour our commitment to spend 0.7 per cent of national income in aid, and ensure ouraid is transparent and properly targeted. We will spend at least £500 million a year to tacklemalaria. Both the British people and those who receive aid will get more control over how it isspent. We will push for a trade deal which brings growth to the poorest countries, helps thosecountries adapt to climate change, and puts in place the building blocks of wealth creation.
The global downturn has shaken up rich andpoor countries alike. For poor countries, itthreatens to undermine a decade’s growth andpoverty reduction. For rich countries, it putsnew pressures on household and governmentbudgets – nowhere more so than in the UK,where Labour’s appalling mismanagementof the economy has saddled us withunprecedented levels of debt. But we shoulduse this opportunity to reaffirm, not abandon,our values – which is why we will continue toincrease the level of British aid. We will do sobecause it is in our national interest, as wellas being the right thing to do.Deliver on our commitment tothe world’s poorest nationsA new Conservative government will be fullycommitted to achieving, by 2013, the UN targetof spending 0.7 per cent of national incomeas aid. We will stick to the rules laid down bythe OE CD about what spending counts as aid.We will legislate in the first session of a newParliament to lock in this level of spending forevery year from 2013.
We support the Millennium DevelopmentGoals and will continue to work towards them.We will maintain an independent Departmentfor International Development (DFID) and keepaid untied from commercial interests.We will be completely transparent about thecost and performance of DFI D programmes byindependently evaluating programmes and byintroducing, where appropriate, paymentby results.Our bargain with taxpayers is this: in returnfor contributing your hard-earned money tohelping the world’s poorest people, it is ourduty to spend every penny of aid effectively.We will ensure British aid money is properlyspent by publishing full details of British aidon the DFI D website. This will includespending data on a project-by-project basis,published in an open and standardised formatso that it can be used by third party websites.In addition, we will work to bring aboutimproved transparency of aid spending byother development organisations.
We will create a new MyAid Fund to allowBritish people a direct say on aid spending, aswell as giving people in developing countriesmore say over how aid is spent in theircommunities.Under Labour, our aid funding is not usedin a focused way, and is sometimes spent incountries that should be looking after theirown poor citizens. So we will stop giving aidto China and Russia and review which othercountries should get British aid. We will focusmore on the poorest, paying particular attentionto development within the Commonwealth.A key aim of our aid is to make sure everyonegets access to the basics: clean water,sanitation, healthcare and education. We willfocus particularly on the rights of women,children and disabled people to access theseservices. Malaria continues to kill nearly amillion people per year, despite the fact that itis easily preventable and treatable. So, as partof our commitment to increase aid funding, aConservative government will spend at least£500 million per year tackling malaria and willstrongly support efforts to develop a malariavaccine.Trade and economic growth are the onlysustainable way for developing countries toescape poverty, which is why we will putmaximum effort into achieving an ambitious,pro-development global trade deal. Our aidprogramme will help poor countries put inplace the building blocks of wealth creation:property rights, effective public services,stability and the rule of law.We will provide a more integrated approachto post-conflict reconstruction where theBritish military is involved – building on theStabilisation Unit in Whitehall and creatinga new Stabilisation and Reconstruction Forceto bridge the gap between the military and thereconstruction effort.To help deliver on our commitment todeveloping countries, we will:• establish a Poverty Impact Fund to supportinnovative and effective British povertyfightinggroups which do not currentlyqualify for government funding;• explore ways to help the very poorestdeveloping countries take part ininternational climate change negotiations,and work to make our aid ‘climate-smart’;• end Labour’s use of the Export CreditGuarantee Department to support investmentin dirty fossil fuel power stations, and insteaduse it to help spread new green energytechnology to developing countries; and,• encourage the establishment of a Pan-AfricanFree Trade Area, which has the potential totransform that continent’s economies.

