
Labour Press

    Fairness from day one: Ed Miliband to set out how a Labour government will immediately end the Tories’ Bedroom Tax

    Ed Miliband will today (Friday) announce that an end to the Tories cruel and unfair bedroom tax - which has hit almost half a million people – will be the first act of his new Labour government.

    He will announce that, from day one of the new Labour government, new funds will be made available to offset the full costs of the tax for all families currently paying it, with these funds distributed through local authorities. This will end family hardship while a new Labour government passes rapid legislation to put an end to David Cameron’s Bedroom Tax once and for all.

    Ed Miliband will take this message to every part of Great Britain today on a whirlwind tour of England, Scotland and Wales.

    He will visit Cardiff, Glasgow and Bristol as the Labour leader steps up his campaigning in the final week of the general election campaign.

    In campaign stops with Carwyn Jones in Cardiff, Rachel Reeves in Bristol and Jim Murphy in Glasgow, Ed Miliband will promise to end the misery brought by an unfair tax that hits those in need the hardest.

    Ed Miliband will say:

    “We’re going to abolish the Bedroom Tax in every corner of the United Kingdom. This Bedroom Tax is indefensible. It’s cruel and it doesn’t even work.
    "It has punished those most in need in our society, causing untold misery for half a million families across the UK, two thirds of which include a disabled person.

    "It’s a tax that affects 200,000 children and 60,000 carers - people we should be helping, not hurting.

    "And under the Tories, a million more people could be hit by the tax in the next five years. This is a Government that cuts taxes for millionaires, opposes the mansion tax. It won’t abolish non-dom status but will keep the Bedroom Tax.

    "I think that tells you everything you need to know about a Tory Government - and it tells you everything you need to know about a Labour Government that the first thing we’ll do is scrap it.

    "We will legislate straight away to abolish the Bedroom Tax - in England, in Wales, in Scotland, right across our United Kingdom.

    "We’ll get to work immediately to ensure that families no longer lose out. We’ll make new funds available to local authorities to offset the full costs of the tax for all families who currently pay it.

    "So on day one of a Labour Government, we free families from the burden of the Bedroom Tax.”
        May 1, 2015 (7:22 am)