Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040004.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP

BNP Membership Reopens Despite Race Gestapos Attempt to Subvert Democracy
March 12, 2010

openMembership applications to join the British National Party are now again open despite the states best efforts to subvert the party and democracy, Nick Griffin MEP has announced.

Speaking after the conclusion of the Equalities and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) court case today, Mr Griffin said the court had in effect ruled that political parties could not ask its members to endorse policies which oppose mass immigration.

The court ruled that sections 3.2.1 and 3.2.3 of the BNPs new constitution could not be set as conditions for membership of the party as they would discriminate against ethnics, Mr Griffin said.

Section 3.2.1 of the BNPs new constitution reads as follows:

Our party is a party of British Nationalism, both ethnic and civic, and we are committed to the principle of national sovereignty in all our British Homeland affairs and of self determination and sovereignty in all Indigenous British affairs.

We are pledged to the continued creation, fostering, maintenance and existence of the unity and of the integrity of the Indigenous British and of the government of the countries of England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, and of Eire, which together, and as further expanded in Schedule 1 (Interpretation Rules), are referred to in this, our constitution, as our British Homeland.

Section 3.2.3 reads as follows:

We are pledged to stemming and reversing the immigration into our British Homeland that has, without the express consent of the Indigenous British, taken place since 1948, and to restoring and maintaining, by legal changes, negotiation and consent, the Indigenous British as the overwhelming majority in the make-up of the population and expression of culture in each part of our British Homeland.

The court has ruled that these clauses, which are part of the membership conditions as stated in section 4 of the constitution, makes it impossible for ethnics to join the BNP, Mr Griffin said.

We, of course, disagree with the courts opinion.

There is no correlation between being opposed to mass immigration and the opening of membership of the party, Mr Griffin said, adding that he knew members of ethnic minorities who were just as opposed to mass immigration as any indigenous British member of the party.

Section 3 of the BNP constitution is protected and cannot be changed except by an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) of the party, Mr Griffin went on.

The new constitution grants the partys leader the power to change all non-protected parts of that document to comply with the law, without the need for EGMs.

Section 4, which deals with the requirements for membership and includes the demand that members support all the principles of the party, is not protected.

I have, therefore, with immediate effect changed the section 4 requirements, as I am entitled to do, to comply with the court order, Mr Griffin continued.

What this means is that people can apply to join the BNP without having to endorse and support the principles of the party.

Everyone knows this is a mad situation, and it has set an astonishing and extremely dangerous precedent for all parties.

It is a complete subversion of democracy and is in reality an attempt by the state to order the citizenry what policies they can or cannot believe in.

The bottom line is that the BNPs policies remain exactly as they were, particularly the demand for an end to mass immigration.

I have changed the non-write protected constitution to comply with the court order and the amended version will be published online well within the 30 days set our constitution.

Membership applications are therefore are now open and the 7000-strong backlog will be processed in the order in which they applied, Mr Griffin said, adding that any ethnic who had applied to join the party would wait in turn like anyone else to have their applications processed.

Posted in National News | 606 Comments 

