Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228010002.txt

Party Manifesto: LibDem (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

We’ve had 65 years of Labourand the Conservatives: thesame parties taking turns andmaking the same mistakes,letting you down. It is time forsomething different. It is timefor something better.

Dear Friend,
Elections that can really make a difference don’t come along very often.But this is one of them.This May, you have an opportunity to shape the future of our country forthe better. We’ve had 65 years of Labour and the Conservatives: the sameparties taking turns and making the same mistakes, letting you down. Theyhave taught people to expect little from politics, and get less.It is time for something different. It is time for something better.Doesn’t it make you angry that after 65 years of red-blue government, achild’s chances in life are still more determined by their parents’ bank balancethan by their own hopes and dreams? Doesn’t it make you angry that thebanks have been allowed to ride roughshod over our economy, and are stillhanding out bonuses by the bucket load? That politics is still the playthingof wealthy donors and corrupt MPs? That despite endless warm words frompoliticians, our climate is in danger? That the poorest are the ones who paythe biggest chunk of their income in tax?
I was brought up to believe that the way things are is not the way they haveto be. I was brought up to believe that you should fi ght for what you believein, and fi ght for change. So my message for you in this election is simple.Don’t settle for low politics and broken promises: be more demanding.Set your sights on the Britain you want for your children and yourgrandchildren, and use your vote to make it happen.Liberal Democrats are different. When it’s come to the big decisions – on thebanks, on the environment, on the war in Iraq – we are the only party that hascalled it right, every time.Only Liberal Democrats have the big ideas for fundamental, structuralchanges in the way our country works to make it fair. Only Liberal Democratswill shake up the tax system to put £700 back in the pockets of tens ofmillions of low and middle-income families, paid for by ensuring the wealthypay their fair share. Only Liberal Democrats will break up the banks and startBritain building things again, creating a sustainable economy that no longerthreatens our planet’s future. Only Liberal Democrats will invest in our schoolsto give every child, no matter their background, a fair start in life. And onlyLiberal Democrats will sort out our rotten political system once and for all.A strong vote for the Liberal Democrats means the end of red-blue, blue-redpolitics. It means the end of the stitch-up between the two old parties.It means the beginning of real change that works for you.
Best wishes,
Nick Clegg

