Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228020018.txt

Party Manifesto: Labour (UK) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------



5. Britain strong in the world.

Britain needs a government ready to stand up for our interests and values. We have a ten-year vision for British foreign policy: a leading player in Europe, our alliance with the USA strengthened, using our global connections to help Britain and tackle global problems.
Unlike the Conservatives, we see Europe as an opportunity not a threat. Because we participate fully, we are able to work with our partners to shape an EU agenda that advances our national interests. We will put democratically elected national governments in the driving seat of EU policy. Our ten-year goal is to work with our partners for Europe to have the most competitive knowledge-based economies in the world. We hold to our promise: no membership of the single currency without the consent of the British people in a referendum.
Britain has some of the best armed forces in the world. With Labour, they are being developed to meet the challenges of the post-Cold War world.
Labour is committed to lead the development of a comprehensive agenda for poverty reduction and sustainable development.
We want to mobilise the international community to deliver the International Development Targets, generate growth and equity in developing countries, and help them benefit from global economic integration.
We are convinced of the science of global warming. We pledge to meet tough national targets for environmental protection, and we will work at international level to halt and reverse climate change.
We face a choice between an inward-looking chauvinism that leads to isolation and a modern patriotism where the British national interest is pursued through international engagement.

Europe is changing. Economic reform is under way in the European Union, with over two million new jobs created last year. Many new members are going to join the EU. Co-operation is being extended in defence and security policy. A new way of conducting EU business has been born ? comparing best practice to share the benefits of diversity in order to reduce over-reliance on centralised regulation.
We face a very simple question. Do we want to be part of the change, influencing its direction? Or do we want to opt out? We have spent 50 years on the margins; it is time to make the most of our membership.
We have seen the alternative. By 1997 Britain had retreated into itself: business was global, people travelled and worked around the world, our culture was open to new ideas, yet our government was closing itself off. And Britain got a worse deal. Because they were backward looking and divided on Europe, the Conservatives were weak and ineffective in Europe. And because of their weakness in Europe, Britain lost influence around the world. We lost our say over decisions that affected our lives.
In the last four years we have seen the benefits of engagement. Our rebate has been protected and our contributions are falling to similar levels as France and Italy. The Labour model of defence co-operation ? giving Europe the option to act where NATO chooses not to ? has won through. Economic reform is now helping the European economy. The veto on crucial issues of national sovereignty, such as tax, is safe. All this happened only because Labour had the strength to get involved, argue for its ideas, and persuade others to follow us.
Labour believes that Europe brings benefits for Britain, and a Europe reformed by British ideas, working with our MEPs, will be even better for Britain. Together with virtually all other European countries we do not support a United States of Europe. But we do believe a Europe made up of nation states and offering a unique blend of inter-governmental co-operation where possible and integration where necessary, can be a major force for good ? for its own members and in the wider world.

We want to take Europe forward, to meet British needs.

A Europe of prosperity.

Europe is a crucial market, accounting for more than half of our trade. Britain has secured a shift in economic policy in Europe ? away from harmonisation of rules and towards a system based on dynamic markets allied to comparison and promotion of best practice.
The key priorities are: to deliver more choice and lower prices through liberalisation of financial services and utilities; to promote business development with a common EU patent and cuts in red tape; to develop our common research effort in frontier technologies like bioscience; to cut delays and fares by establishing an integrated Air Traffic Control system for Europe; and to develop effective labour market policy to tackle unemployment in dialogue with the social partners.
We support efforts being made across the EU to reform welfare states, modernise social partnership and advance social inclusion. EU state aid policy should bear down on aids that distort the single market while supporting economic modernisation. We will keep the veto on vital matters of national sovereignty, such as tax and border controls.
Trade has been a vital source of prosperity for Europe?s citizens. Our vision is of an open European economy. That requires a genuine single market, in an open world trading system.

A wider Europe.

New countries joining the EU will give Britain a bigger market and Europe a bigger voice.
Membership will help guarantee the freedoms of the new democracies in central and eastern Europe. Labour is pledged to do all it can to enable the first group of applicant countries to join in time to take part in the next European Parliamentary elections in 2004.
It is vital we ratify the Treaty of Nice which is essential to enlargement; Labour in government will do so. The Conservatives have said they will insist on tr ying to renegotiate Europe?s treaties at the first summit after the election.
No other country agrees with this. That means that a Conservative government would either have to back down in the face of opposition, or take Britain out of Europe altogether with disastrous consequences for Britain.
Our argument is that if Britain is stronger in Europe, it will be stronger in the rest of the world. We reject the view of those who say we must choose between Europe and the USA.

We shall remain the USA?s firm ally and friend; but we are not going to turn our backs on Europe. The USA and Europe account for ten per cent of world population but 60 per cent of global GDP; working together we can tackle many problems and spread the benefits of freedom, peace and prosperity.

A Europe of the future

The main sources of popular legitimacy in Europe remain national governments and parliaments. So national governments should be seen to be setting the agenda of the EU, with the European Council setting the EU?s priorities, a strong independent Commission ensuring that the European interest is heard and enforced, and an effective European Parliament improving draft legislation and holding the Commission to account.
Labour wants the next Inter-governmental Conference in 2004 to address public concerns about the way the EU works, spelling out in a clear statement of principles what should and should not be done at European level. Labour supports a stronger role for national parliaments in European affairs, for example in a second chamber of the European Parliament, with a particular remit to oversee the division of competences. We will also insist that the Commission completes its internal reform programme.
Britain?s national security is based on the mutual support that comes from membership of NATO. That will not change. And although Britain has rarely been more secure from foreign invasion, there are new threats to our people from crime and terrorism. Instability around the world can affect us directly and we have a global responsibility to play our part in reducing international conflict, controlling the spread of weapons of mass destruction, and contributing to international peace-keeping and peace-making operations.
To enable the European Union to act where NATO chooses not to, the EU should improve its military capabilities for humanitarian, peace-keeping and crisis management tasks.

Our armed forces are the best in the world at fighting if they have to, and keeping the peace where they can. Labour is committed to investing more in real terms in our armed services over the next three years, the first year-on-year real increase in funds for over a decade. An important part of that investment will be in better service accommodation. We are determined to recruit and retain the best people, from all walks of life and all backgrounds.
We will look after the interests of Britain?s veterans. We have doubled funding for research on Gulf War illnesses, and will continue this important work.
In 1997 Labour promised a strategic defence review. Today, that review is admired around the world for its clarity, efficiency and foresight. We need more mobile and more flexible armed forces, with the ability to project force at distance and speed, to work closely with other nations and international bodies, and to fight and keep the peace. We have shown what this means in practice in Kosovo and Sierra Leone, and our servicemen and women have responded magnificently. We are determined to maximise resources for frontline use by disposing of surplus spares and promoting smart procurement and efficiency savings.
The European Defence Initiative is an important part of our defence policy. Europe spends two-thirds as much as the US on defence, but gets only a fraction of its effectiveness. European nations need to modernise their armed forces for rapid and flexible deployment. Improved EU military capabilities will not be separate from NATO structures and would only be deployed where NATO as a whole chooses not to engage. The launch of an EU operation will follow a unanimous decision, with each member state free to decide whether to take part.
We support Trident, Britain?s minimum nuclear deterrent. The Nuclear Non- Proliferation Treaty commits us to work for the global elimination of nuclear weapons. We are enthusiastic signatories to the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, whose coming into force will impede nuclear proliferation, and we want to see the USA and Russia continue to reduce their nuclear stockpiles.

We recognise the new dangers posed by the proliferation of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, and the need to combat them. Nuclear arms reductions and proliferation controls remain an important part of defence and security policy. We will seek effective inspections against the development of chemical and biological weapons. We will encourage the US to consult closely with NATO allies on its ideas for missile defence, and to pursue dialogue with Russia on a new framework for strategic arms control that will encourage further cuts in nuclear weapons.
The British defence industry is a vital part of our economy, sustaining some 350,000 hightechnology jobs. We will continue to work closely with our best companies to get the best equipment for our armed forces ? a good deal for the taxpayer as well as a secure future for high-technology jobs.
The UK has introduced the most open report on arms exports of any European nation and has led the EU to adopt a code of conduct on arms sales. Labour will lead efforts to control the trade in small arms, and work for a comprehensive action plan at this year?s UN conference on small arms, including an international arms surrender fund to provide development aid in exchange for firearms. We will legislate to modernise the regulation of arms exports, with a licensing system to control the activities of arms brokers and traffickers wherever they are located. We will work with EU applicant countries to strengthen their capacity to control legal and illicit arms transfers.


