Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228070014.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Transport and The Environment

Transport

Propagandists for the EU present it as 'environmentally friendly'. They would have us believe that without help from Brussels we cannot address environmental problems or provide good public transport. In reality, the EU is part of the problem. It aims to impose a system of central planning where 'one size fits all' - but in reality no one is satisfied. Some of the most controversial aspects of rail privatisation, such as the creation of Railtrack as a private monopoly, were introduced to comply with EU rules - yet in many EU countries the railways are still owned by the state. EU membership drains away money that could be used to create better roads and railways. Independence will enable us to address the UK's unique transport problems instead of following irrelevant directives.

In rural areas especially, we must assume that the car will continue to be the main form of private transport, for reasons of efficiency and convenience. We are not in favour of laws and taxes which penalise the motorist - they are both ineffective and highly illiberal. There is no point in telling motorists to 'get out of their cars' when public transport is unavailable or unsafe. The UKIP supports an integrated transport system with easy transitions between car, bus or train, and in which cycling and walking are also encouraged. In improving our public transport, we can learn lessons from other countries, including the Netherlands, and Switzerland - which despite its mountainous terrain has the best transport infrastructure in Europe.

In general, the UKIP favours free market solutions in transport. However unlike the Conservative Party we do not see privatisation as an article of faith, and we oppose the partial sell-off of the London Underground. We address transport policy on a case-by-case basis, taking local conditions into account. For example, the UKIP will work with the Countryside Alliance and other rural forums to tackle the problems of rural transport - in particular for children, the elderly and people on low incomes.

The UKIP is persuaded by calls from the Federation of Small Business to reduce fuel tax, and a part of the Independence Dividend of funds released to the Treasury when Britain leaves the EU is earmarked for this purpose. High fuel taxes do not protect the environment but do threaten Britain's global competitiveness. They destroy jobs, ruin businesses and add to the difficulties of British farming. The haulage industry, rural economies and the poor are worst affected by these high taxes. Independence will mean that we could reduce our own fuel tax rates at will without having to justify this to the EU - as the Norwegian Parliament did in September 2000. The UKIP rejects the 'Climate Change Levy' as another stealth tax on business.

The UKIP supports adequate funding for bypasses, upgrading major routes, road and railway maintenance and the provision of cycle lanes. The private car Road Fund Licence (RFL) will be structured to encourage the use of the least polluting vehicles, although some historic vehicles may be exempt.

