Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228060033.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Farming and the countryside

Foot and Mouth disease is but the latest in a series of blows inflicted on our farmers.

The Common Agricultural Policy has damaged consumers, farmers, the taxpayer and the environment. It must be reformed to cut the bill for taxpayers and consumers, provide sustainable long term support for farming, and protect the environment and the countryside. We will renegotiate the CAP so that many decisions currently taken at EU level would be taken by the governments of individual member states.

Farmers and other rural businesses spend too much time on form-filling and red tape. The next Conservative Government will not enforce European regulations any sooner or more zealously than other countries.

We will also fight for a fair deal for consumers, by introducing honesty in labelling and requiring the country of origin and method of production of the main ingredients to be stated on the label of all food products.

We will also renegotiate the Common Fisheries Policy. We will insist on national or local controls being established over our own waters, whether through zonal management, or coastal management, or in some other way.

We will improve animal protection and welfare by building on the successes of the last Conservative Government to raise animal welfare standards in Europe.

The Foot and Mouth crisis has not only badly damaged farming but has also damaged the general rural economy and all that depends on it. Alongside the farming crisis, rural communities are losing their post offices, pubs and police stations at alarming rates.

Labour neither understands the needs of the countryside nor even cares about its survival.
We need a new approach.

The next Conservative government will protect the liberty and livelihood of rural communities. Our policies on transport, crime, planning and Europe will all benefit the countryside.

We will cut business rates for rural shops, pubs, garages and village post offices and change the rules so that they can provide new, much-needed local services. We will encourage more passenger-friendly rural transport services and give community transport schemes a tax rebate on their fuel cost.

Post offices round the country are closing in record numbers because the Government has announced the ending of cash payment of pensions and benefits at post offices. We recognise the essential part played by post offices as a focus of community life.

We will remove Labour's threat and instead introduce a benefit card which will cut fraud and bring large efficiency gains while continuing to bring business into post offices.

We will abolish centrally-driven national or regional housebuilding targets. Local councils accountable to local people should be responsible for meeting local housing needs. Where there is rapid population growth, central government should work in partnership with local councils to invest in additional infrastructure.

As well as our Green Belts, we will take action to protect our rivers, wetlands, lakes, canals and coastline from development by establishing "Blue Belt" areas.

The Conservatives will establish a new Select Committee on Rural Affairs to monitor the impact on rural communities of all aspects of government policy.

