Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_060027.txt

Press Release from Party: Con

News story
Gordon Brown's failure on immigration
Wednesday, March 31 2010
Chris Grayling

Shadow Home Secretary Chris Grayling has responded to Gordon Browns speech on immigration, saying it ignored the extent of Labours failure.

"The public know that Labour have failed on immigration and there is nothing new here to change peoples minds", he said.

"Net migration is up threefold since Labour came to power. People can see how overstretched our public services are because of Gordon Browns open door policy".

Labours ten worst immigration failures:

    Immigration is up threefold since Labour came to power.
    Labour estimated that only 13,000 Eastern Europeans would arrive after joining the EU. In fact more than a million migrants from new EU states have come here since 2004.
    There are up to 700,000 illegal immigrants in the UK.
    Labours failure has aided human trafficking.
    More than a thousand foreign prisoners, including sex offenders and murderers, were released without being deported.
    Gordon Brown fiddled the figures last week to prove immigration was down in 2009.
    Net migration was only down in 2008 because record number of British citizens emigrated.
    A former Government adviser said that Labour had encouraged immigration for electoral reasons.
    The Home Office lost its files on 40,000 illegal immigrants.
    The Home Secretary admits Labour have failed on immigration.

Grayling added that Britain can benefit from immigration, but not uncontrolled immigration."Look at any aspect of life today and you can see the contribution that migrants have brought - and not just to the economy.

"We want to continue to attract the brightest and the best people to the UK - but with control on the overall numbers coming here".

We have clear plans to reduce net immigration to the tens of thousands a year that we saw in the 1990s instead of the hundreds of thousands a year weve got now".
Go to news

    Subscribe
    Print



