Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228050006.txt

Party Manifesto: Green (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

welfare
Let’s start with decent pensionsAfter 13 years of Labour rule we still haveunacceptable levels of poverty. It is particularlyoffensive that 25% of pensioners and 20% ofchildren still live in poverty. Our creakingwelfare system gets ever more complex as itattempts to fill the gaps, yet it often fails toreach those entitled to benefits but who donot claim them.In the longer run a fundamental reform isneeded, where most of the complicatedbenefits, means tests and qualifyingcontributions are swept away, and all citizensreceive as of right a basic income – a Citizen’sIncome. The cost of this would be recoveredthrough a more progressive income tax system.We recognise that with the public finances intheir present state this is not the time tointroduce such a scheme. However, we canmake a start by helping the two vulnerablegroups above, with a decent Citizen’s Pensionscheme and a major increase in Child Benefit.Our present pension system is a disgrace.Wepay an inadequate state pension (only £97.65per week for a full state pension for a singleperson), the level of which is still notlinked to average earnings (and which isnot up-rated at all for UK pensioners livingabroad in certain countries). It dependson an individual’s contribution record,discriminating in particular against women,but also against others with poor contributionrecords such as those with poor health or abroken work record, or who have been carers.This is in theory topped up by means-testedPension Credits, which discriminate againstanyone with very modest savings, creating amassive disincentive to save to provide foryourself. As many as one in four pensionerslive in poverty.Introducing a Citizen’s PensionWe need a new system of Citizen’s Pensions.The Citizen’s Pension would be paidunconditionally to all pensioners in the UK(independent of contribution record) at therate of the official poverty line (currently£170pw for someone living alone, and therate would be £300pw for couples), andwould be linked to average earnings.It would also be paid to, and up-rated for,the one million pensioners living abroad.Housing Benefit and disability benefits wouldcontinue to be paid. The demeaning PensionCredits would be abolished.

And it is right too to do something significantabout child poverty. Rather than add furtherto the complex and means tested Child TaxCredits system, we would simply more thandouble the existing and universal ChildBenefit payment, by paying an extra £20pw,which would be taxable, for each child. Thiswould cost a further £14bn per year, muchof which would be recovered by increasedtaxation on the most wealthy.

Defending sheltered housing residents against service cutsIn December 2008, Brighton and Hove's Green Councillors joined forces with local residentsin defence of services provided to those living in Sheltered Housing. As a result, Brighton &Hove City Council was forced to drop plans to switch to a ‘floating’ style of support for shelteredhousing tenants, which would have seen a reduction in the number of ‘on-site’ schememanagers.

How would we pay for Citizen’sPensionsThere are about 12 million pensionersliving in the UK and a further 1 millionliving abroad.Paying a single rate of £170 per weekand a couples rate of £300 per weekwill cost £110 billion a year.But the basic state pension alreadycosts £56 billion, and when certain otherspecific pensioner benefits like thePensions Credits paid to those of pensionage are abolished the total saving will bealmost £70 billion.That leaves £40 billion to find.Abolishing tax relief on pensioncontributions raises £20 billion, and afurther £19 billion would come fromabolishing employer national insurancecontributions and employee NationalInsurance rebates associated withpension schemes.The final £1 billion will come fromincreased income tax receipts frompensioners. Because the number ofpensioners is gradually rising, and wewould link the pension level to averageearnings, Citizen’s Pension will cost afurther £0.8 billion by 2013–14. Thisfigure is included in our figures forgeneral taxation.There will also be savings (not quantifiedhere) on Council Tax Benefits andHousing Benefits.

A fair deal for social carers
A vast proportion of social care in the UK isprovided by unpaid family carers who savethe NHS £87bn a year. Carer’s Allowance (CA)is an income-capping straitjacket. CA paid tofamily carers aged 16 and over is the ‘CinderellaBenefit’: £53.10 for a 35-hour week minimumcommitment is no real compensation.Child carers under the age of 16 receivenothing at all. They are perhaps our mostvulnerable child labourers, often workingvery long hours and bearing emotionalburdens far beyond their years. These childrenreceive no financial support and in manycases work longer hours than their oldercounterparts. Their schooling and educationare often compromised and some simplynever have the chance to ‘play’.The Green Party is committed to:
• A more generous Carer’s Allowance,increased by 50% to £80pw.• Offering support to people who want togive care, recognising their pivotal positionwhile increasing the amount of care available.• Healing the rift between adults’ andchildren’s social services that was created byNew Labour.
• Providing more short breaks to families,including disabled people or those withlong-term illnesses. Such early interventionschemes have been shown to save moneyby preventing crises.• Improving working conditions forprofessional staff at all levels, paying forpreparation time and follow-through,as well as contact time, and providingmore in-service training to help copewith the vast spectrum of service userrequirements.• Instituting workforce health checks asadvocated by UNISON.• Repealing the oppressive Welfare ReformAct (2009) as a prequel to supporting peoplethrough lifelong development for their ownand the planet’s well-being.• Cancelling the DWP benefit entitlementassessment contracts with private sector.• Restoring the link between state benefitsand earnings.• Giving carers cheaper local travel on bus,trains, tube and trams.

