Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228020019.txt

Party Manifesto: Labour (UK) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------


Britain belongs to a unique range of influential global organisations, giving us responsibilities and opportunities. Labour will stand up for Britain.
? At the UN, where we support a more modern and representative Security Council, with more effective peace-keeping.
? At the Group of 7 leading industrialised countries, where we will stay at the forefront of efforts to promote development.
? In the Commonwealth, where we will work to promote human rights and bridge the digital divide.
We will argue for an early, comprehensive world trade round, to the benefit of industrialised and developing countries alike.
The World Trade Organisation must be reformed, not rejected. We will support fairer terms of trade for developing countries, and a reduction in protectionism in the developed world in areas such as agriculture. We will continue to help developing countries exercise their rights within the WTO.
We support the promotion of higher labour standards around the world, as well as respect for the environment, as we expand world trade.
The International Labour Organisation (ILO) is the place to set labour standards, but we believe there should be closer co-operation between the ILO and WTO through the creation of a joint standing forum of the two organisations.
We are committed to encouraging universal observance of human rights. Governments that are democratically elected will be firmer allies for peace; open societies that respect individual freedom will be more reliable trade partners. Labour will be a friend of those denied human rights and a supporter of steps to strengthen them.

Labour has played a leading role in bringing war criminals, notably from former Yugoslavia, to justice, and in establishing a permanent court to try war crimes. We will work to make the International Criminal Court a reality, with Britain as one of its first members.
Reform in Europe. South Africa next year.
We are one of the few countries to have met our 1992 obligations to hold greenhouse gases in 2000 below their 1990 levels. In 1997 we set a target of reducing CO2 emissions by 20 per cent by 2010. We will meet our obligations arising from the Kyoto protocol and have set out a detailed strategy to achieve more ? a 23 per cent cut in greenhouse gases by 2010. The Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution has said the UK will need to cut CO2 production by 60 per cent by 2050, so we need to press ahead with a radical agenda for the development of low carbon economic growth, embodied in our F700 million commitment to renewable energy.

In addition to our proposals for environmental technology and renewable energy described in ?Prosperity for all?, we must also make progress in the following areas:
? We must make the market work for the environment. Britain is developing the first national CO2 emissions trading system in the world. It will help companies find the most efficient way of reducing emissions ? and reward them for doing so. Once the system is established here we will seek to extend it around the world.
? We will support hybrid and fuel cell vehicles, which already offer a halving of fuel consumption and CO2 emissions, with cheaper motoring to match ? and for cleaner fuels and biofuels. By increasing demand for new technologies we can boost innovation and the vitality of the UK car industry.
? It is imperative that we use natural resources more efficiently and recycle more. We will continue to tax pollution and reward clean production. We will develop environmental productivity indicators. We have set a target for the recycling of 35 per cent of household waste by 2015, and will work with all local authorities to introduce kerbside recycling schemes wherever appropriate.
? Water management is a vital challenge for the future ? for the environment and for the growing world population. We will continue to make our contribution at home: leakage is down by almost 30 per cent since 1997, bills have been cut by 12 per cent and disconnections have been ended.
? Environmental protection and sustainable development go hand in hand. We cannot protect the environment without addressing the development needs of the poor, and poverty reduction depends on safeguarding natural resources on which poor people depend.
? We will continue to provide leadership abroad, working for international agreement on climate change, improved integration of the environment in European policies and a strong global environment agency built around the current UN environment programme. We will work to improve marine and forest conservation overseas and in the UK.


