Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040112.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Britains Borders Left Open as UK Border Agency Faces 30% Cut  while Foreign Aid Budget Hits 45-Year High
April 7, 2010

CAMERON-THIRD-WORLD-01Britains border policing agency has been told to cut up to a third of its staff due to budgetary constraints  as new figures show that the Tory/Labour-supported foreign aid budget is at its highest level in 45 years.

The UK Border Agency (UKBA) has a 2 billion budget and is tasked with policing Britains borders.

This agency has been told in an official email from its personnel chief Joe Dugdale, sent two days ago, that staff were going to be made redundant.

According to the planned cuts, offices at key ports, including Dover, will no longer have manned immigration desks 24 hours a day, seven days a week.

The cuts will affect London, including offices in Croydon, Liverpool, Sheffield and Kent.

The budget cuts mean that up to a third of all staff, numbering hundreds, are to be made redundant in a round of drastic cost-cutting by the Government.

While Britains borders are left open by these cutbacks, spending on foreign aid is set to increase even more.

dfid

In a press release issued by the Department for International Development (DFID), it was proudly announced that the foreign aid budget is now at its highest level for almost half a century.

Statistics released by the Department for International Development show that the UK spent 0.52% of Gross National Income on overseas aid in 2009  the highest proportion since 1964, boasted the DFID.

The figures also show that the UK is one of the few G8 countries on course to meet its 2005 Gleneagles commitment of contributing 0.7% of GNI to international aid from 2013.

UK Official Development Assistance (ODA) reached 7,365 billion in 2009  the highest absolute level of UK overseas aid ever recorded  which is an increase of more than 1 billion on the previous years figure.

A draft bill is currently before Parliament which would place a legal duty on the International Development Secretary to ensure that the UK spends 0.7% of [Gross National Income] GNI on overseas aid from 2013, the DFID said.

Both Tories and Labour have announced that this budget is to be ring fenced so that it cannot be reduced no matter what other cuts are made to government spending.

British voters will be ecstatic to hear that while UKBA staff are made redundant, nearly 1 million of their taxes has been given to Nepal to fund a voter registration drive, according to a Department for International Development press release of 5 April.

Another project financed by the UK taxpayer is a fund to provide employment for people in Yemen which cost 100 million.

According to the DFID, the money will be used to set up cash for work schemes that will provide employment for the poorest people.

* The 7.37 billion figure quoted as foreign aid in the DFID press release is direct aid and does not include approximately 2 billion also absorbed by the foreign aid budget in expenditure (such as administration, salaries etc) which does not transform into direct financial giveaways.

* The 0.7 percent objective of GNI, endorsed by both Tories and Labour, will amount to 13 billion per year at current levels.

Meanwhile, Britains borders are left unguarded . . .

The British National Party is the only party dedicated to halting this betrayal of the British people by stopping all expenditure not directly in the interests of the British people.

Posted in National News | Comments (59)

