Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228010021.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

Britain's Skills: Excellence for All

Britain's citizens are our greatest asset. Liberal Democrats will invest in people to enable every individual to fulfil their potential, and, in so doing, build the nation's economic and social strength. We aim to create a first-class education system for all, not just by providing adequate publid funding, but also through reforms which increase choice and opportunities for each citizen.

Liberal Democrats start from the belief that every individual, whatever their age, sex, background or ability, possesses a unique potential and a valuable contribution to offer society. Our target is excellence for all. This requires more relevant courses, higher standards and improved provision. Excellence also has a cost. We will guarantee that Liberal Democrats will increase investment in education by GBP 2 billion in the first year, even though this will require an extra penny in the pound on income tax. Our priorities for investment are preschool education, education and training for 16-19 year olds, and adult education.

Aiming High: Raising Standards

Our aim is simple - to give Britain a world-class education system, in which high quality is key, by the year 200.

We will:

    Create the framework for high standards by establishing a single Department of Education and Trainig with oversight of all education and training. We will set up a National Qualification Council to coordinate a single system of academic vocational courses for 14-19 year olds, and a new Higher Education Standards Council to monitor quality in higher education.
    Improve inspections. We will ensure that afully independent HM Inspectorate of Education and Training, properly staffed and funded, reports on the entire range of public and private provisino from preschool education to universities. Local inspectors of schools will be answerable to the Inspectorate, which will also have a new role as Education Ombudsman. We will carry out a School Buildings Audit alongside the regular four-yearly local school inspection, to assess the physical state of schools and equipment. We will reinstate the buildings standards suspended in 1989.
    Support teachers. We will set up a statutory General Teaching Council to improve professional qualifications and set standards for teacher training and retraining. We will improve provision for in-service training and career breaks for women teachers with children. We supported the introduction of the Teacher's Pay Review Body and believe it will ensure that teachers are properly rewarded.

Puting Education at the Heart of the Community

Liberal Democrats pioneered Local Management of Schools. Now we aim to increase further the day-to-day independence of schools and colleges within a democratically accountable framework of local education authorities. This includes:

    A new independence for schools and further education colleges. We will give schools increased administrative support in return for the wider opening of their facilities to the local community. We will fully fund individual teacher costs. We will encourage every school to enhance its character, ethos and areas of special interest within a more flexible National Curriculum framework. Within this context of greater freedom for all schools, we will end the two-tier system created by Grant Maintained Schools and City Technology Colleges by returning them to the strategic planning framework of the local education authority. Strategic responsibility for adult and further education will remain with the LEA. LEA representatives on school governing bodies will reflect fairly the poltiical balance of the authority.
    A new role for local democracy. We will require LEAs to guarantee a suitable place, with proper support, for every child in education and training up to the age of 19. This will include responsibility for ensuring that schools and colleges meet the highest standards of academic performance, discipline and behaviour, and for providing special services for schools, such as peripatetic music, language development, or behaviour support. Published information about schools and colleges will recognise achievement on the basis of 'educational value added' - progress made by pupils - rather than crude 'league tables' of results.
    Independent schools. We recognise the contribution to excellence which the best of these schools make, and the right of those who wish to pay for private education to do so, but this should not be subsidised from public resources. We will phase out the Assisted Places Scheme without affecting those already in it, and restore the money saved to state schools. We will review the charitable status of independent schools with the intention of ensuring that the benefits of charitable status are only awarded to those institutions that make a genuine contribution to the wider community.

Opening Schools to the Community

Schools should be seen as a valuable resource, not just for their pupils but for the communities around them. Access to their libraries, computers, meeting rooms, sports halls, playing fields and swimming pools could make a big contribution to community life.

We will encourage all schools to open up these facilities to local people in the evenings, at weekends and in school holidays. Some of our proposed expansion of adult education will be organised in this way. Local authorities - particularly community councils where they exist - will help to provide the administrative support needed to manage such open access.

Educating the Individual

Liberal Democrats will ensure that every individual can receive high-quality education and training throughout their life from before school to retirement. But the current system places too little emphasis on vocational achievements.

We will:

    Guarantee preschool education for every child. We will guarantee every child access to two years' preschool education with a choice of preschool provision.
    Introduce a National Record of Achievement. We will ensure that every pupil has a National Record of Achievement so that progress is properly documented and shared between paretns and schools. Supplemented by individual diagnostic testing, this will replace the current Standard Assessment Tasks in order to raise standards.
    Reduce class sizes. We aim to reduce maximum class sizes so that no registration class in the coutnry need have more than 30 pupils.
    Reward academic and vocational achievements. our new National Qualifications Council will develop a modular, credit-based course and examination structure for the 14-19 age group, covering both vocational and academic courses. This will build on a simpler, more flexible National Curriculum and a revised and extended system of National Curriculum levels. Pupils from the age of 14 will study a balanced curriculum around a core of maths, English, science and a foreign language, adding specialisms in academic, vocational or technical courses, some delivered by employers in the workplace. We will ensure that all 14-19 year olds have a personal tutor and careers advice, helping them build the foundations for personal fulfilment and success.
    Broaden post-16 education. We will give all 16-19 year olds in work the equivalent of at least two days a week education or training. Courses will be selected by both the employer and the individual and will be accredited as part of our new 14-19 system. Those studying full time will study up to three major and two subsidiary subjects, adding work experience, parenting and citizenship to build a baccalaureate-style programme.
    Improve Special Educational Needs provision. We will give every LEA a separate Special Educational Needs service with its own budget for which schools will bid for funding. We will require schools to prepare, for every child with special needs who is not currently covered, an indicative statement to identify needs, set targets and report progress. The service will be monitored by specialists in the local inspection team and in HMI.
    Enable education for life. We will give every citizen an entitlement to a period of retraining or education at a time of their choice during their adult lives, based on distance learning costs. We will start by giving this guarantee to those groups most in need, including the long-term unemployed and single parents.
    We will guarantee that Liberal Democrats will incrase investment in education by GBP 2 billion in the first year. Our priorities for investment are preschool education, education and training for 16-19 year olds and adult education.

Opening the Doors to Higher Education

Britain's higher education system still provides excellent standards of education, but does so for too few people. Liberal Democrats aim to increase both participation and flexibility in studying for degrees, because not all students want to follow traditional three-year courses.

We will:

    Increase the number of students in higher education to two millino by the year 2000. As well as more young people, we will particularly encourage the participation of women, people from minority ethnic and poorer backgrounds, and people with disabilities.
    Increase flexibility in courses. We will introduce a credit-based system, enabling students to achieve a diploma after the equivalent of two years, with the option of a further one or two years' study leading to a degree. We will make financial assistance available for part-time study.
    Open up new opportunities for study. We will develop distance learning opportunities and extend the franchising of higher education courses so that courses can start at local colleges - helping people who wish or need to study from home.
    Fund students properly. We will abolish student loans and restore student entitlement to housing benefit and income support. As our plans for the reform of tax and benefits are implemented, we will establish a Student Income Entitlement and a Student Allowance to which all students, both full- and part-time, will be eligible.
    Guarantee Quality. Our new Higher Education Standards Council will ensure that as numbers rise, quality does not suffer. We will establish a proper career structure for research fellows and set up a Pay Review Body for academic and non-academic staff to halt the brain drain.
    Invest in research. We will immediately increase the science budget to 0.35% of GDP, and raise it steadily thereafter. We will establish a new Humanities Research Council.

