Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228010015.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

Air Pollution Index

Air pollution threatens the health of millions of people - particularly children, elderly people and anyone with a respiratory problem such as asthma. Government monitoring stations measure levels of pollutants such as nitrogen oxides or low-level ozone but fail to publicise them widely. When levels exceed World Health Organisation guidelines, the result is described as 'good' - in other countries it would be called 'poor'.

We will increase the number of monitoring stations, ensuring that all major urban areas are covered. We will publish a regular air pollution index and encourage newspapers and TV and radio weather forecasts to use it. This will increase public consciousness of the pollution issue and prove of real benefit to the health of vulnerable people.

Controlling Pollution

We will need market mechanisms, where feasible, to reduce pollution by ensuring that environmental costs and benefits are fed into the economy. Direct controls will still be needed in some cases.

We will:

    Set targets for cutting pollution. These include a 30% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions from the UK by the year 2005; our energy policy is greated to this target. We will ban the use of CFCs and halons by 1994.
    Introduce a system of tradable emission licenses. We will issue factories and power stations with licences setting a ceiling on permitted emissions of pollutants such as sulphur dioxide. These will be tradable: those who are most efficient at reducing pollution would have surplus licences which they could then sell either to those less efficient, or back to government. The targets for emissions - and therefore number of licences available - will be reduced year by year, leading to a steady fall in pollution.
    Create a new Department of Natural Resources will sole responsibility for environmental protection, leaving the Department of the Environment to cover local government and housing. We will set up an independent and powerful Environmental Protection Agency to work with the new European Environment Agency.
    Put forward plans for a powerful United Nations Environmental Programme to lead global efforts to protect the environment, operating within the framework of an 'Earth Charter'. We wish to see a world market in tradable emissions licences for carbon dioxide and other pollutants. This would not only provide incentives to cut pollution but also act as a channel for transferring resources to developing countries.

