Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228010006.txt

Party Manifesto: LibDem (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

your job. LiberalDemocrats want tobuild an economy thatis based on innovationand sustainability, wherethe infrastructure thecountry needs is inplace for individuals andbusinesses to thrive.

opportunities for all in a fair, green economy
Liberal Democrats want to build an economy that is based on innovationand sustainability, where the infrastructure the country needs is in place forindividuals and businesses to thrive. Our aim is to deliver growth that lastsand is environmentally sustainable.Decades of Labour and Conservative rule have created an unsustainableeconomy, preoccupied with the artificial wealth of inflated property pricesrather than productive work and invention. They have been obsessed by the‘Square Mile’ – the City of London – instead of supporting all 100,000 squaremiles of Britain.To boost the economy and create jobs for those who need them, we willbegin our term of office with a one-year economic stimulus and job creationpackage. To sustain jobs and growth for the long term, we will set up anInfrastructure Bank to direct private finance to essential projects such asnew rail services and green energy, building the environmentally sustainableeconomy that is needed for the long term. And to ensure that the economy isnever again destabilised by high-risk financial industries, we will break up thebanks and build up diverse local and regional sources of business finance.sustainable finance for business growthWe have all learned an important lesson from the credit crunch and therecession: we cannot build an economy on financial gambling. Radical reformof the financial infrastructure is needed to create and sustain jobs, and movetowards a sustainable and balanced economy where businesses in everytown, city and region can grow.That starts with banking reform. Banks must be made to behave responsibly.And we need to support and develop new ways of financing growingbusinesses, with equity rather than debt, and without relying too heavily on
the financial centre of the City of London. More diverse sources of finance willprovide the funding needed to develop innovative new products and reversethe decline in the UK’s manufacturing base.In order to put the economy on a new footing, we will:• Break up the banks, to ensure taxpayers are never again expectedto underwrite high-risk banking. We would establish a clear separationbetween low-risk retail banking and high-risk investment banking,and encourage the development of local and regional banks. Wewill introduce a Banking Levy, so that banks pay for their tax-payerguarantee, until the break-up is complete.• Get the banks lending responsibly again. The taxpayers’representatives on the boards of the banks the public own or part-ownshould insist banks lend to viable businesses on fair terms again.• Ensure that the bonus system can never again encourage banks tobehave in a way that puts the financial system at risk or offers rewardsfor failure.• Support the establishment of Local Enterprise Funds and RegionalStock Exchanges. Local Enterprise Funds will help local investorsput money into growing businesses in their own part of the countryand support the development of new products from research toproduction. Regional Stock Exchanges will be a route for businessesto access equity without the heavy regulatory requirements of aLondon listing.creating jobs that lastThe new economy must be very different from the old if it is to be sustainable,not just financially, but environmentally too. If we start now, Britain can lead
the new green economy that the world needs. We recognise that strongbusinesses create and sustain jobs and a Liberal Democrat governmentwill support them in doing so.Liberal Democrats will begin our term in office with a one-year job creationand green economic stimulus package. We have identified £3.1 billion ofpublic spending that can be used to create 100,000 jobs. This programmewill be a first step towards our target for a zero-carbon Britain by 2050.Our green stimulus plan will create 100,000 jobs. It comprises:• Investing up to £400 million in refurbishing shipyards in the North ofEngland and Scotland so that they can manufacture offshore windturbines and other marine renewable energy equipment. As part ofthis scheme we will write off backdated business rates demands frombefore April 2008 for businesses in ports.• Launching an ‘Eco Cash-Back’ scheme, for one year only, whichwill give you £400 if you install double glazing, replace an old boiler,or install micro-generation. If you choose micro-generation, you willbe able to sell the energy back to the National Grid at a profit, witha more attractive feed-in tariff than under current government plans.• Setting aside extra money for schools who want to improve theenergy efficiency of their buildings. They will pay back the loan overtime from energy savings, creating a rolling fund to help insulateevery public building.• Bringing 250,000 empty homes back into use. People who ownthese homes will get a grant or a cheap loan to renovate them so thatthey can be used: grants if the home is for social housing, loans forprivate use.
• Investing £140 million in a bus scrappage scheme that helps buscompanies to replace old polluting buses with new, accessible low-carbonones and creates jobs.We will also create hundreds of thousands of opportunities for young peopleaffected by the recession. A work placement scheme with up to 800,000places will ensure that young people have the opportunity to gain skills,qualifications and work experience even if they can’t find a job. Young peopleon the scheme would be paid £55 a week for up to three months. We willalso fund 15,000 extra Foundation Degree places, fully meet the up-frontcosts of adult apprenticeships, and increase the Adult Learning Grant to £45a week for 18–24 year-olds in Further Education.To help the transition to a green economy over the longer-term, we will setup a United Kingdom Infrastructure Bank (UKIB) to attract private finance –essential to delivering the much-needed expansion of Britain’s transport andenergy infrastructure when public finances are tight. The UKIB will:• Create a new route to provide capital, guarantees and equity toinfrastructure projects, using public money to attract upfront privateinvestment.• Increase the funding available from the private sector by tapping intothe funds of institutional investors, namely annuity funds looking for ahome in the UK.• Reduce the cost of long-term funding as compared with the PrivateFinance Initiative.• Provide the opportunity for retail investors to save in safe long-termassets.• Be a stand-alone public entity, independent from government but with
a long-term strategic remit. It would have the ability to reject oraccept proposals based on whether they are financially viable orwithin its remit.• Start with government seed funding which it can use as a capital baseto borrow against. This seed funding could be raised from the sell-offof the student loan book or the Tote as the government has alreadyproposed. In addition borrowing could be secured against or raisedfrom government-owned assets such as the Dartford Crossing. Wewill investigate other ways of raising seed capital such as auctioningairport landing slots and parts of the radio spectrum.enabling enterprise that benefits BritainLiberal Democrats believe in the value of entrepreneurship and enterprise,recognising that thriving businesses are vital to create the wealth this countryneeds. We need to ensure a strong competitive environment by providinga level playing fi eld for all businesses, encouraging a diverse, sustainableeconomy for the long term.Liberal Democrats will:• Reduce the burden of unnecessary red tape by properly assessingthe cost and effectiveness of regulations before and after they areintroduced, using ‘sunset clauses’ to ensure the need for a regulationis regularly reviewed, and working towards the principle of ‘one in,one out’ for new rules.• Put an end to the so-called ‘gold-plating’ of EU rules, so thatBritish businesses are not disadvantaged relative to their Europeancompetitors.
• Reform business rates, creating a fairer system where rates are basedon site values rather than rental values and are the responsibility oflocal authorities. We will make small company relief automatic andalso seek to ensure that the burden is spread more equitably betweensmall and large businesses.• Reform Regional Development Agencies (RDAs) to focus solely oneconomic development, removing duplication with other parts ofgovernment and allowing substantial budget reductions. We will giveresponsibility for economic development to local authorities. Whereexisting RDAs have strong local support, they may continue withrefocused economic development objectives. Where they do not, theywill be scrapped and their functions taken over by local authorities.• Ensure that takeover rules serve the UK economy. We will restorea public interest test so that a broader range of factors than justcompetition can be considered by regulators when takeovers areproposed and we will ensure that the outcome of takeover bids isdetermined by the long-term shareholder base. We will reintroducethe Operating and Financial Review, dropped in November 2005, toensure that directors’ social and environmental duties will have to becovered in company reporting.• Support public investment in the roll-out of superfast broadband,targeted first at those areas which are least likely to be provided forby the market.• Keep the tax regime and allowances that apply to the oil and gasindustry under review to secure the maximum long-term benefit tothe UK economy of the remaining North Sea reserves.• Use the substantial purchasing power of government to expand themarkets for green products and technologies.

supporting mutuals, co-ops and social enterprisesWe believe that mutuals, co-operatives and social enterprises have animportant role to play in the creation of a more balanced and mixed economy.Mutuals give people a proper stake in the places they work, spreading wealththrough society, and bringing innovative and imaginative business ideas tobear on meeting local needs.We will:• Give financial regulators a clear objective of maintaining a diversityof providers in the financial services industry.
• Seek to turn Northern Rock into a building society.• Give both Royal Mail and post offices a long-term future, byseparating Post Office Ltd from the Royal Mail and retaining PostOffice Ltd in full public ownership. 49 per cent of Royal Mail will besold to create funds for investment. The ownership of the other 51 percent will be divided between an employee trust and the government.• Encourage community-owned renewable energy schemes wherelocal people benefit from the power produced.• Pass a new Mutuals, Co-operatives and Social Enterprises Bill tobring the law up to date and give responsibility for mutuals to aspecific minister.
creating a dynamic environment for scienceand innovationBritain’s future depends on a vibrant research base and the ability ofinnovators to exploit the country’s intellectual capital to generate new homegrownhigh tech industries.Despite Government rhetoric, overall public funding of science in real terms isno higher than it was two decades ago. Britain’s Research and Developmentspend as a proportion of GDP remains near the bottom of the G8. There is noroom for complacency.In the current economic climate it is not possible to commit to growth inspending, but Liberal Democrats recognise the importance of scienceinvestment to the recovery and to the reshaping of the economy, making itless reliant on the City of London and creating new green industries instead.We will:• Respect the convention that the science budget, once allocatedthrough the Comprehensive Spending Review process, is not used forother purposes.• Ensure that the decisions on the funding of research projects aremade on the basis of peer review not Whitehall interference, whilerecognising the need for government to identify broad strategicpriorities in a transparent manner.• Ensure that all state-funded research, including clinical trials, ispublicly accessible and that the results are published and subject topeer review.• Reform science funding to ensure that genuinely innovative scientificresearch is identified and supported, instead of basing fundingdecisions on narrow impact factors.We need to safeguard the future of the science and engineering workforceand break the vicious cycle linking fewer University science, engineering andmaths applicants to fewer teachers with specialist qualifications. We will:• Tackle the gender gap at all levels of scientific study and research tohelp increase the supply of scientists.It is vital that policy, especially that relating to public health, criminal justiceand environmental protection, benefits from being based on the best availableevidence. We will:• Safeguard academic freedom and the independence of scientificadvisers by amending the Ministerial Code to prevent governmentfrom bullying or mistreating advisers and distorting evidence orstatistics.

fair treatment at work for everyone
Liberal Democrats want to build a society where everyone has theopportunity to get on in life. Most businesses do a great job of supportingtheir employees, but there is more to do to tackle discrimination on thegrounds of gender, sexuality, age, race, religion or disability. We want to giveemployees fair opportunities to make the best use of their talents, and greatercontrol over their working lives and conditions.Women are still paid less than men. It can be hard to juggle work and familylife. People from Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic communities are still morelikely to suffer discrimination. And there are far too many barriers to work forpeople with disabilities.We will change this by:• Extending the right to request flexible working to all employees.• Requiring name-blind job application forms to reduce sex and racediscrimination in employment, initially for every company with over100 employees.• Introducing fair pay audits for every company with over 100employees to combat discrimination in pay, for example againstwomen. We will also require all public companies to declare in full allremunerations of £200,000 per year or more.• Giving disabled job seekers better practical help to get to work, usingvoluntary and private sector providers, as well as JobCentre Plusservices. We will also reform Access to Work, so disabled peoplecan apply for jobs with funding already in place for equipment andadaptation that they need.Our policies on secure and sustainable energy are set out in theYour World chapter.

