Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_060021.txt

Press Release from Party: Con

News story
Scrapping Big Brother restrictions on teachers
Tuesday, March 30 2010
Michael Gove

Michael Gove, Shadow Secretary of State for Children, Schools and Families, has pledged to scrap the Governments proposed "licence to practise".

He has also set out the Conservative Partys support for giving more freedom to teachers both in and outside of the classroom.

Speaking to the Association of Teachers and Lecturers (ATL), he described the Governments proposed licence to practise as "nothing but an expensive overly-bureaucratic half measure".

"I know of no teacher who wants to go through this process nor has the time to do so. It wont add anything to the number one priority of all teachers  improving the education of their pupils. A Conservative Government would not introduce it."

He said the key to raising the status of the profession is "trusting teachers to do their job", not "going through a pointless process" every five years. Outlining the Conservative approach he said:

"The Conservative Party will give you freedom to teach how you want to. Well reduce your bureaucratic burden and the horrendous amounts of forms you have to fill out. Well reduce the burden of OFSTED inspections and ensure they concentrate on supporting you to do the best possible job. Well end the disastrous system of limiting judgements which sees good schools failing inspections for failing to file a form correctly."

Gove also spoke about the issue of discipline in schools. An ATL survey found that 25 per cent of teachers had faced violence from a pupil.

"This Government has undermined adult authority in the classroom", he said. "Too often teachers dont feel they have the powers they need to stop disruption". Outlining how the Conservatives will deal with this, he said:

"A Conservative Government will restore adult authority to the classroom. Well give teachers the power to remove disruptive pupils from the classroom. Well ensure the law is on your side. Well make behaviour contracts compulsory so parents also have to play their part. Well give headteachers the power to search for and ban any items they feel are disruptive. So if a child is suspected of having items which cause disruption on them we will let teachers search them. Something the Government is against because it is against childrens human rights. "

Concluding, Gove said the choice at the next election is clear: "If you want a Government that doesnt trust in you but wants to hem you in with endless centrally driven initiatives and programmes and constrains you in the classroom then vote Labour".

"If you want a Government that believes in you and will give you the professional freedoms you need to deliver safe classrooms and high quality schools for all, vote Conservative."
Go to news

    Subscribe
    Print



