Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228050023.txt

Party Manifesto: Green (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

• Reallocate the £30 billion the Governmenthas earmarked for road-building over thenext 10 years. Spend the money on aprogramme of investment in publictransport over the Parliament.• Provide affordable, cheaper local transportthat is accessible to those with disabilities byinvesting in buses and subsidising someroutes. Make public transport public.• Reregulate bus services nationally.• Assist businesses with green workplacetravel plans.• Give higher priority to railways and planfor a growing railway network.• Open additional stations on existing routes.• Invest in new Light Rapid Transit systems(using appropriate technologies).• Simplify fares for all public transport,with discounted fares for off-peak journeysand for those with low incomes.• Support free local transport for pensioners.• Return the railways, tube system andother light railway systems, including bothtrack and operations, to public ownership.• Support in principle a new north–southhigh-speed line, which would reducethe number of short-haul flights withinthe UK.We would make the cost of private carsmore effectively mirror their environmentalcost to wider society:• Abolish car tax and replace it with apurchase tax on new cars that reflects theiremissions. That way we would affect the typesof car chosen at the time that matters, whenthey are bought new.• Prioritise public transport, then ifnecessary work towards the introductionof road pricing schemes like the Londoncongestion charge.
We would reduce heavy freight and shift itfrom the roads to the railways:• Reduce the demand for freight transportby localising the economy.• Expand the rail freight network and makegreater use of waterways, where suitable.• Safeguard land adjacent to railways for usein freight distribution projects.• Introduce road user tolls for heavy lorries.We would reduce air travel:• Introduce taxation on aviation that reflects itsfull environmental costs. Failure to tax aviationfuel, and choosing not to levy VAT on ticketsand aircraft, amounts to a subsidy wortharound £10bn every year in the UK alone.• Stop airport expansion and shift shorterair journeys to the railways (45% of all airtrips in the EU are under 500Km) .• Ban night flying.

Investing in public transportExpansion of public transport (and walking and cycling) is critically important to decarbonisingour transport infrastructure, which is the only sector in which climate-altering carbonemissions are currently growing.We would divert money currently being wasted on huge road projects and put more of theUK’s transport budget into public transport, and especially into local schemes for walking,cycling and bus travel.We would spend £1.5 billion subsidising existing public transport to make fares up to 10%cheaper, and £30 billion over the Parliament on investing in a better system. This will havethe effect of strengthening communities, promoting a greater appreciation of place,reducing crime, improving the health of the population and reducing traffic fatalities.It would also create 160,000 jobs.The new investment in public transport should itself be in low-carbon technologiesas far as possible.

Lewisham candidate DarrenJohnson leads Lewisham Greencouncillors in local action onclimate changeAt every opportunity Lewisham Greencouncillors have pushed for decisive actionin tackling climate change and put forwardpractical solutions to help local residentsplay their part. Green councillors wona series of concessions in the Councilbudget-setting, including:• More money for sustainable transportofficers to promote cycling and walkingand carry out cycle training in schools.• Cash for a bid to be the first Londonborough to run a street-by-streetenergy reduction scheme.• Smart meters on loan through libraries.• Solar panels fitted in local primaryschools.As an MP Darren could extend his workto the national scene.

