Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228020011.txt

Party Manifesto: Labour (UK) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Labour has reshaped the lottery to match people?s priorities. Money goes for revenue as well as capital. The New Opportunities Fund (NOF) directs help to education, health and the environment ? after-school clubs, vital cancerbeating equipment, local green spaces.
We backed going ahead with the Dome as an opportunity to showcase British talent and give people a good day out in millennium year.
Despite being enjoyed by more than six million visitors, the Dome did not fulfil expectations and we have learned the lessons, good and bad, from it. But the development of the Dome has been the catalyst for unlocking the value of the North Greenwich peninsula and regenerating local communities.
We need a revolution in the status, standards and focus of our public services. Labour is prepared to make the investment in staff and services ? and we are ready to match investment with reform. Patients will be able to see a GP within 48 hours.
By the end of 2005 we will cut maximum waiting times for outpatient appointments from six months to three months, and for inpatients from 18 months to six months by expanding staff numbers and reforming how care is delivered. Major conditions like cancer and heart disease will have priority, with all patients treated according to clinical urgency.

We will give patients more choice. We have restored the right of family doctors to refer patients to the hospital that is right for them. Now we will redesign the system around the needs of patients. Same day tests and diagnosis will become the norm. By extending the use of NHS Direct and increasing the numbers of dentists, patients will get easier access to NHS dentistry wherever they live. Specially built surgical units ? managed by the NHS or the private sector ? will guarantee shorter waiting times. We will use spare capacity in private-sector hospitals, treating NHS patients free of charge, where high standards and value for money are guaranteed.

It would be wrong to push people into paying for their operations. That is why we reject the approach of the Conservatives, which would lead to this outcome.
By the end of 2005 every hospital appointment will be booked for the convenience of the patient, making it easier for patients and their GP to choose the hospital and consultant that best suits their needs. From next year, if an operation is cancelled on the day of surgery for non-clinical reasons, the hospital will have to offer another binding date within 28 days, or fund the patient?s treatment at the time and hospital of the patient?s choice.
By modernising all maternity units, increasing the number of midwives and giving women greater choice over childbirth, we will ensure that women receive the highest quality maternity care.

There will be tough new standards for care of children, the elderly and people with conditions like diabetes, kidney failure, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson?s disease and epilepsy.

We will further tackle the ?lottery of care? as we direct local health authorities and trusts to fund drugs and treatments recommended by the National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE).

Genetic services will be extended in the NHS so that more patients enjoy the benefit of the latest advances in testing and treatment; but we will ban by law human cloning, and implement a moratorium on the use of genetic tests for insurance, following a recommendation of the Human Genetics Commission. We will continue to examine demographic and technological challenges as they affect the NHS.
Patients will have more say, as in the NHS Plan.
We will give every citizen a personal smartcard containing key medical data giving access to their medical records. Older people, people with disabilities and their carers will be able to decide which services they want, with the choice of having cash given to them directly by local councils.
Patients will be represented on trust boards and have more information on local services? quality.

Power devolved.

To achieve this vision there will be clear national standards but greater decentralisation to frontline services and to the staff who run them.
Locally agreed personal medical services schemes will be extended. By 2004 all local healthcare will be organised by primary care trusts (PCTs) run by frontline doctors and nurses. Together with the new care trusts, combining health and social services, PCTs will control 75 per cent of NHS funding. With more power for PCTs we will cut the number of health authorities by two-thirds and devolve to the remainder the functions of NHS Regional Offices. We will use the savings of F100 million a year for investment in frontline services.
Hospitals and other local services will have greater control over their own affairs and access to a F500 million performance fund, while consistently failing NHS hospitals will be taken over by successful NHS hospitals.
Appointments to trust boards will no longer be made by ministers but by an independent panel.

NHS staff.

None of these ambitions will be possible without major investment in the skill, working conditions and working practices of all NHS staff. There will be extra pay too in high-cost areas, with pressure relieved through expanded staff numbers, reformed working practices and investment in training.
Every NHS employer will offer more flexible working hours for staff and especially nurses.
Childcare provision will be improved and we will offer targeted subsidies for childcare for NHS staff. The pay system will be reformed to make it fairer. As set out in the NHS Plan, there will be new contracts for GPs and hospital consultants, coupled to extra money. We will examine the case for a public-private partnership with a commercial mortgage lender to make home ownership more affordable for nurses and other staff.
We will set up a University of the NHS to guarantee to staff at all levels opportunities for training and career development. Healthcare assistants, porters, cooks and cleaners will be offered an individual learning account worth F300 a year to develop their careers. We will examine the potential for sabbaticals to help GPs, consultant nurses and consultants keep their skills up to date.
There will be new systems to learn from when things go wrong, a core education curriculum for all health professionals and reforms to modernise the way health professions are regulated. We will take action to protect NHS staff from violence and abuse, and reform the clinical negligence system.
This is a vision worth fighting for. It will take time to achieve, but this is the most comprehensive plan ever put before the British people to improve the state of the nation?s health and our health service. It will deliver an NHS to be proud of.


