Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228060040.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------


Defend our securityWe will create a National Security Council to oversee all aspects of our security, chaired by thePrime Minister. We are committed to succeeding in our mission in Afghanistan and will not leaveour Forces without the resources they need to fulfil this goal. We will repair the Military Covenantwith a series of measures to support service personnel, their families and veterans.

Labour have failed to deliver a unified andcoherent approach to national security.They have not even kept their promise of acomprehensive National Security Budget.Their incompetence places our nation at risk.Despite fighting two major wars in the lastdecade, Labour have cut the target for thetrained strength of the Army, shrunk the sizeof the Navy by a fifth and run down the RAF.The men and women of our Armed Forcesare the ones charged with protecting ournation’s security. But Labour’s dangerousmismanagement has endangered lives andharmed Britain’s capacity to defend itself.Labour have been too slow to provide theequipment, such as helicopters, which ourForces on operations have badly needed. Ourbrave men and women, their families, and ourveterans deserve the best for putting their liveson the line to protect our liberties. We willensure they get the best.A resilient nationWe understand the severity of the threats thatexist and will do all we can to make BritainDefend our securityWe will create a National Security Council to oversee all aspects of our security, chaired by thePrime Minister. We are committed to succeeding in our mission in Afghanistan and will not leaveour Forces without the resources they need to fulfil this goal. We will repair the Military Covenantwith a series of measures to support service personnel, their families and veterans.safe. We will establish a National SecurityCouncil to co-ordinate responses to the dangerswe face, which will be chaired by the PrimeMinister. In addition, we will:• create a National Security Adviser and anew National Resilience Team for HomelandSecurity;• develop a National Security Strategy andoversee a Strategic Defence and SecurityReview that implements that strategy; and,• establish a new Permanent MilitaryCommand for Homeland Defence andSecurity to provide a more structuredmilitary contribution to homeland security.Terrorism remains a major threat to ourcountry and some of the biggest threats to oursecurity do not come from abroad – they arehome grown. A Conservative government willban any organisations which advocate hate orthe violent overthrow of our society, such asHizb-ut-Tahrir, and close down organisationswhich attempt to fund terrorism from the UK.In Northern Ireland, we will continue to giveour fullest support to the police and other
agencies in their efforts to combat the threatfrom dissident republican and other terroristorganisations.Support our brave Armed ForcesOur mission in Afghanistan is vital to ournational security. Success in Afghanistan willbe achieved when it is a more stable state,able to manage its own security, resist outsideinterference, and prevent terrorists from usingits territory as a safe haven. We will alwaysensure our Forces have the resources they needto carry out their mission properly, and we willpress other members of NATO to take their fairshare of the military burden. The training ofAfghanistan’s own security forces is key to thesuccess of the mission, and we will continue tomake it a priority.Our Strategic Defence and Security Reviewwill ensure that resources for our Armed Forcesare matched to our foreign policy requirements.We support the decision to renew Britain’ssubmarine-based nuclear deterrent, based onthe Trident missile system.The hopeless mismanagement of defenceprocurement by this government has wastedbillions of taxpayers’ money and left ourArmed Forces underequipped and dangerouslyexposed. We will review the structure of theMinistry of Defence to reduce running costs by25 per cent. We will reform the procurementprocess to ensure the delivery of equipment ontime and on budget. We will release spendingon unnecessary and bureaucratic EU defenceinitiatives and spend the money on our ArmedForces. As part of that process, we willre-evaluate our position with the EuropeanDefence Agency.Our commitment to look after the ArmedForces and their families – the MilitaryCovenant – has been allowed to fall intodisrepair. This is one of the most damningfailures of Gordon Brown’s government. Wewill restore the Military Covenant and ensurethat our Armed Forces, their families andveterans are properly taken care of. To makethat happen, we will:• double the operational allowance;• maximise rest and recuperation leave;• ensure our servicemen and women aretreated in dedicated military wards inhospital;• change the rules so that service personnel arenot locked out of the voting system by rulesthat Labour have introduced;• use ‘pupil level annual school census’ data toinclude service children within our plans fora pupil premium in schools, ensuring theyattract extra funding;
• provide university and further educationscholarships for the children of servicemenand women killed while on active duty,backdated to 1990;• pilot a mental health follow-up service forthose who have left the services; and,• review the rules governing the awardingof medals.

