Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228060009.txt

Party Manifesto: Con (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

THE BRITISH PRESIDENCY

In the second half of 1992 Britain will take the Chair of the Council of Ministers. The British Presidency comes at a turning point in the Community's history. It gives us the opportunity to shape the direction of the Community and to establish its priorities. We shall use it to promote our vision of an outward looking Community based on free enterprise.

Our Presidency will reach its climax at the Edinburgh meeting of the European Council, which we will hold in the historic palace of Holyrood House. While the attention of Europe is focused on Edinburgh, the strength of our Union will be visible to all.

Our priorities will be:

    To start negotiations with those EFTA countries who want to join the Community so that they can join by 1995.
    To build on the EC's Association Agreements with Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Poland so that we can welcome them to full membership by the year 2000.
    To conclude EC trade and co-operation agreements with the main republics of the former Soviet Union.
    To complete the single market and extend it to the seven countries of EFTA- Over half our trade is with the rest of the Community. The single market will create an open market of 350 million customers for British goods and services. To complete the single market we shall aim to:
        open up the market for life insurance to free competition;
        liberalise air travel to bring down air fares in Europe closer to those in America;
        free up the shipping and road transport markets so that British operators can carry freely within the EC;
        increase competition in the European energy sector. 
    We will provide guidance and help to any British company encountering a trade barrier illegal under European law.
    We will press for progress on the environment, including the Fifth Environment Action Programme.
    We will chair the negotiations on the future spending priorities of the Community to ensure value for money. We will safeguard the abatement negotiated by Mrs Thatcher which has so far brought some £12,000 million in budget rebates to Britain. 

