Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040010.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP

Another Bad Week for Labours EHRC Likely
March 14, 2010

It is claimed that Trevor Phillips leadership of the Governments Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC), will experience severe criticism next week arising from the publication of a parliamentary report.

The report, prepared by a cross-party committee of MPs and peers, will inevitably lead to searching questions being asked of Mr Phillips chairmanship of the EHRC.

It also will, according to media sources, be embarrassing for Labours deputy leader, Ms Harriet Harman, who was responsible for reappointing Phillips without any parliamentary involvement.

It was only last year that a number of EHRC commissioners resigned complaining about Mr Phillips alleged divisive management style.

This has been compounded by the resignation of the EHRCs finance director as recently as last week.

If matters were not already bad enough for the EHRC following its failure to severely disrupt the BNP in the courts last week ahead of the General Election, events have now taken a distinct turn for the worse.

In a highly embarrassing development, the contents of a supposedly confidential Joint Committee on Human Rights report, has been leaked to a national Sunday newspaper.

According to this newspaper the report will make a number of damaging claims concerning both the organisation and how it is run.

These include the allegations that:

- Mr Phillips risked a perceived conflict of interest through his involvement in a private equalities consultancy firm while holding down the post as chairman of the EHRC

- Miss Harman should have allowed Parliament to first scrutinise Mr Phillips performance before reappointing him last summer at the end of his first three-year contract.

Furthermore, it is reported that the joint committee also alleges that the financial affairs of the EHRC are being closely scrutinised by the Public Accounts Committee, this following its controversial decision to pay redundancy and early retirement payments to employees who were then rehired at a cost of 1 million to the taxpayer.

We are informed that the report also refers to additional EHRC problems including the continuing delay in replacing its chief executive, who announced her resignation in March 2009 after allegedly falling out with Mr Phillips.

Consequently, the EHRC remains without a chief executive, a situation not likely to be resolved until later this year due, primarily, problems with the appointment process caused partly by the Governments new policy to scrutinise public sector salaries over 150,000.

The clear implication here being that the EHRCs new chief executive will be on a taxpayer funded salary of at least 150,000.

Incredibly, in the meantime, the report claims that the interim director-general is being paid 1,000 a day for a four-day week to help run the quango, again, at the expense of the taxpayer.

According to the Sunday newspaper concerned, the report goes on to suggest that Mr Phillipss reappointment last summer was sanctioned despite a series of resignations by commissioners and in light of other issues.

These are said to include the allegation that the Equate Organisation, a private consultancy of which Mr Phillips was the majority shareholder, was paid by Channel 4 for advice given in the aftermath of a damaging race row that resulted from the bullying of an Indian actress on Celebrity Big Brother.

In their report the committee accepts that Mr Phillips has now given up his controlling share in Equate but expresses dismay that it took him so long to act on the advice he was given.

Labours Ms Harman also comes in for criticism by the joint committee, particularly in respect of Mr. Phillips reappointment last year.

They claim that this should have been subject to open competition, and that Ms Harmans decision to reappoint Mr Phillips without any parliamentary involvement could be damaging to the EHRC.

Finally, in a comment that many will find damning, the report allegedly calls on Mr Phillips to demonstrate his leadership skills and ensure the EHRC performs better in the future.

One issue not apparently addressed by the joint committee is that of why the proportion of EHRC employees from ethnic minority backgrounds is perceived to be substantially in excess of their representation amongst the population as a whole?

None-the-less, the joint committees timely report, coming just days after the conclusion of the EHRCs failed politically motivated attempt to destroy the British National Party, does shed some much needed light on both the machinations and integrity of both the EHRC and those closely associated with it.

Then again, should anyone be surprised?

As far as the Labour Government funded EHRC is concerned the old adage: he who pays the piper calls the tune, would appear to be remarkably appropriate.

Posted in National News | 116 Comments 

