Featured Candidate: Lorna Tooley

7 April 2015


In the run up to the General Election we will be giving you the opportunity to get to know some of our candidates. Our key candidates and spokespeople can be found here.

This year we will be standing in over 90% of seats in England and Wales.

Our Candidate for Romford: Lorna Tooley

Why are you standing for the Green Party in Romford?
I'm standing because I think the people of Romford deserve a chance to vote for a real alternative to what we have at the moment. They should be able to vote for fairer policies, which will benefit them and the local community

What are your three top priorities if elected?
Protecting the NHS - ensuring treatment remains free and is easily accessible, especially for the most vulnerable in our society. Fighting against its privatisation
Access to affordable housing and rent controls, so people can have a real choice on where to live
A Living Wage for all and an alternative to austerity cuts

What made you want to get involved in politics?
I'm an active Trade Unionist. Through the work and campaigning I do with the RMT union, I strive for the best conditions for our members and for fairness and equality. However, the society we live in at the moment is unfair. It puts profits before people and normal, working people have always been hit the hardest and punished for the greed and mistakes of others. I believe that voices of the many are being drowned out by the voice of the few and it is time that this is stopped.

What's your favourite thing about your constituency?
The people! When I first moved to this part of London, I was overwhelmed by how friendly and helpful people are. That's what made me fall in love with the area.

Who is your political hero?
I'm struggling with an answer to this question because I believe there are so few politicians to look up to or be inspired by. That's why I think we need political change - to give young people role models and to make politics seem more accessible to them.
- See more at: https://www.greenparty.org.uk/news/2015/04/07/featured-candidate-lorna-tooley/#sthash.dFltEkFU.dpuf