Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040127.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


Blood on Their Hands: Decades of Labour/Tory Political Correctness Has Terrorised Britain
April 11, 2010

PCEIE-UNION-FLAGDecades of Labour and Tory-created political correctness is the reason why a Bolton man killed himself after making an innocent joke to a black friend which was then used to launch an investigation of racial abuse.

The shocking story of medical technician Roy Amor, who killed himself after being suspended from work following a complaint that he made a racially insensitive joke to a black friend, has illustrated the regime of terror which political correctness has created.

Mr Amor, 61, described as a gifted prosthetic maker, was severely depressed after he was suspended and told he would lose his job.

Mr Amors offence was to say to his black colleague that you had better hide when some immigration officials stopped outside the clinic where they were working.

The black colleague, who was a close friend of Mr Amor, laughed along with the joke, but someone else lodged a formal complaint.

According to reports, Mr Amor received an email five days after his suspension from his employers, Opcare, a private company that provides prosthetic and orthotic services to the NHS, in connection with the incident.

The email was a request asking him to address the statement he had made about the incident.

Mr Amor was unable to open the attachment which accompanied the email, and replied saying that he was too upset to deal with the matter immediately. He then committed suicide a few hours later.

Mr Amor left three notes, all of which mention Opcare and which described his despair at the situation.

According to reports, Mr Amors family said that he was devastated when he was suspended and was worried he might lose his job.

The tragic incident is an insight into how the state-created terror of political correctness has created the situation where even the mildest of jokes can be turned into a personal disaster.

The British National Party has dedicated itself to destroying all vestiges of this artificial and utterly wicked political correctness disease which is the inevitable consequence of the last few decades of Tory and Labour rule.

The time has come for radical change. The time has come for the BNP.

Posted in National News | Comments (152)

