Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228040010.txt

Party Manifesto: BNP (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

Renationalising theWelfare State• The BNP will halt the handout of benefits, housing, education and pensions toforeigners who have not paid into the system.• The BNP will ensure that the National Health Service is used to serve British peopleand not used as an International Health Service.• The BNP will provide education and training for the unemployed to enable them toget back into work.• The BNP will institute a workfare-not-welfare policy for those who refuse to getback to work.The Ideal of the Welfare State Has Been DistortedOriginally, benefits were meant to be the state’s obligation to support those who genuinely were not in a position to support themselves. This guiding principle must always remain the guiding light for a just and humane system — and it is the core of the British National Party’s welfare policy.Decades of Labour and Tory socialist state-induced welfare dependency has utterly distorted this noble ideal. Well-meaning welfare programmes have been exploited, distorted and twisted to become nothing more than a free handout to scroungers, foreign and local.This has in turn created a welfare dependency culture which has led to in excess of six million people living in homes where no one has a job and where benefits are a way of life.Not only does this cost the taxpayer in excess of £13 billion per year, but it also has a hugely damaging effect upon the psychology of a nation which once led the world in productivity and technological innovation and which gave birth to the Industrial Revolution. This dire situation must be reversed — urgently.Workfare, not WelfareThe BNP proposed to reverse these decades of disastrous Labour and Tory social engineering programmes through a sensible policy of workfare, not welfare.The principle is simple: those who receive community support incur obligations as well. People who genuinely want to work must be provided with the opportunity to do so in return for training which will put them back into proper full-time employment.In return for financial support and training for a new career, the benefit recipient must complete a certain number of hours of work per week. Properly implemented, this policy will undermine the benefit dependency culture and bring masses of unemployed back into the formal employment sector.Ultimately there must be only one category of welfare recipient: those who genuinely deserve or have earned it. The scrounger entitlement mentality must be discarded.Those who can work but refuse to do so, must face the consequences of their actions.To this extent, we shall require that those who have been out of work for over 18 months participate in local work schemes in return for their taxpayer-funded benefits.The success of the “workfare not welfare” policy has been proven: these programmes already exist in Australia, America and even in India. Britain has to get back to work: and workfare provides the only path through which this aim will be achieved.Putting British People FirstIt is equally important that the burden of foreign scroungers be dealt with vigorously. Britain has become a land where foreigners come first, and decent, hard-working Britons are exploited. Immigrants come here and are immediately given council homes while Britons are pushed further and further back in the queue.The BNP deprecates the current system whereby the fruits of the welfare state, including our benefits and pensions, are distributed freely to those with no historic ties to our nation and, in particular, to immigrants, ‘asylum seekers’ and economic migrants from within the European Union.The BNP shall legislate to ensure that pensions and benefits are eligible only to Britons and those who have paid into the system over their lifetime.Pensions and benefits will not be paid to claimants whose residence in the UK has not qualified them to benefit from the Welfare State.Reduced pensions will apply to claimants whose residence has not qualified them to benefit from the full amount.The BNP will renationalise the welfare state. Access to education, the NHS, benefits, council houses and pensions will only be available to the British people and those who have paid into the welfare system.

