Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040125.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


The Destruction of Britain through Mass Immigration
April 10, 2010

immigration-open-your-eyesThe devastating impact of mass immigration on towns across Britain has been revealed by the publication of a letter sent to the leaders of the Labour, Conservative and Lib Dem parties.

First sent in January by two independent councillors from Peterborough to Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick Clegg, the letter tells of the incredible strain caused by immigration on local services like education, housing, health services and policing and the environment.

Revealing the shocking contempt shown by the other parties towards the British peoples concerns over the invasion of their country, the letter was ignored and although re-sent two more times, remains unanswered.

The contents of the letter sent by Cllrs Keith Sharp and Charles Swift exposes the extent of the devastation caused by uncontrolled immigration and by the EUs migration policies.

Failing schools are oversubscribed with the majority of their pupils being non-British  one local school has 27 different languages spoken, and 90 pupils in the reception class, of which only 17 are white British.

Similarly oversubscribed Health Services have led to an overspend of at least 7 million by the local Health Trust.

There is a housing shortage leading to rocketing council housing lists, full homeless hostels and people sleeping in hedgerows and garden sheds.

In addition, there has been a rise in crime including muggings, prostitution, drug dealing, protection rackets, illegal drivers, beggars, littering and fly-tipping.

The councillors admitted several times that future provision of services in Peterborough will have to be cut because of the increased costs and made the astonishing claim that Peterbroughs housing situation is in the same state as it was immediately after the Second World War.

They also pointed out the destruction of the indigenous community of Peterborough by the influx of foreigners and the resulting tensions between different communities and that the appalling situation in Peterbrough is mirrored in towns across Britain.

Although EU rules state that foreign nationals can live in other member states for up to 3 months and can only remain if they are financially independent, working or registered as students, Britons will note with amazement that benefits, including housing, are freely handed out by Peterborough council to unemployed EU migrants.

That councils run by the other parties can ignore EU rules to the detriment of the British people they are supposed to represent is criminal negligence.

The British people can be forgiven for feeling that this negligence is part of a deliberate plan to destroy the British people, their country and culture.

Although the BNP has been voicing the same concerns over mass immigration for years and accused of racism for doing so, the media has only now published the truth because two independent councillors have raised the issue.

However, unlike the BNP, these independent councillors offer no solution to the problems that they highlight.

The BNP, with its promise to halt immigration and deport those who should not be here, offers common sense solutions to the mass immigration wreaking havoc on our towns and communities.

We will give British jobs to British workers and British homes, benefits and services to British people.

Posted in National News | Comments (245)

