Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228070005.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

The Independence Dividend

The other major economic benefit from leaving the EU is the substantial 'Independence Dividend' consisting of cash that will be saved when we no longer have to contribute to the EU budget, and savings that will accrue from other sources as a directly result of our independence 2. While the main parties spend their time trying to ridicule each other's tax and spending plans, the UK Independence Party will be in the uniquely favourable position of having an extra fund of some £20 billion per year to use as we see fit.

On leaving the EU, Britain's gross contribution to the EU budget of £8.5 billion per year (with the threatened removal of the Fontainebleau rebate and other structural adjustments this will rise to £11 billion per year) will become immediately available to the Treasury. While the agricultural subsidies and structural fund grants (£4.5 billion) that the UK currently receives from the EU will also cease, the UKIP proposes a partial replacement of these expenditures from the UK's own budget, as detailed below.

In addition to saving our annual £8.5 billion EU payment, there are several other sources of funds to the Independence Dividend that the Treasury will receive on British withdrawal from the EU. The main components of this improvement to the UK budget are as follows. First, higher economic growth resulting from wholesale regulatory reform will bring extra tax revenues (given existing tax rates) and lower demands for benefit payments, which we conservatively estimate to be worth £4.5 billion and £1.5 billion respectively. Secondly, the reduction in the cost of bureaucracy as a result of deregulation across the whole range of government departments and government-funded agencies could raise a further £4 billion. Finally, as a separate substantial item, we estimate that the gain in revenues less subsidies from re-establishing our own fishing industry will be £1.5 billion.

These sources together add a further £11.5 billion to the £8.5 billion saving in our gross contribution to the EU. On these estimates, the total Independence Dividend of extra funds available to the Treasury as a consequence of leaving the EU is of the order of £20 billion per year (£22.5 Billion when rebates cease).

