Text ID:
uk_pm_el_92_228010007.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 1992
-------------------------------------

Policies for the new century

It is clear from our analysis of Britain's balance sheet that Britain needs change. Here are our first steps, the key measures which we believe must be taken straight away if we are to break the cycle of Britain's decline, unlock the full scope of Britain's potential and pave the way to future success.

The first steps

    Britain's political institutions need thorough-going reform: stable and representative government, elected Parliaments in Scotland and Wales, decentralisation of power to the English regions and to local government, freedom of information and a Bill of Rights. As the essential measure to secure and entrench lasting reform we will introduce fair votes by proportional representation for Parliamentary elections.
    In the middle of the recession, the economy needs new impetus not a tax cut. We will immediately introduce an emergency programme of investment in the infrastructure and in public works in order to get companies and people back to work, thus reducing unemployment by 600,000 over the next two years.
    Lower inflation and a stable climate for industry to plan and prosper will lead to long-term prosperity. We will give the Bank of England independent responsibility for monetary policy, with a requirement to promote price stability. We will put the pound into the narrow band of the Exchange Rate Mechanism.
    Environmental priorities must be built into all economic decision-making, ensuring that economic success goes hand in hand with environmental responsibility. We will introduce new environmental incentives.
    The skllls and capabilities of the British people must be adequate to meet the challenges of the new century. We will increase investment in education by GBP 2 billion, funding this by an increase of 1p on income tax.
    Older people deserve greater security. We will protect private pensions, and increase the basic state pension, making it payable as of right without means testing.
    Britain's future must be safeguarded by active membership of the European Community which is united and democratic and in which decisions are taken as close to the people as possible. We will take decisive steps towards the economic, monetary and political union of a democratic Europe.

Only when these key steps have been taken will government and individual alike be able to plan for the long term, instead of focusing on the short term and the next election.

The balance of this manifesto sets out the Liberal Democrat vision of the future: our long-term programme for government. The detailed costing and revenue-raising effects of our proposals are contained in a separate supplement.

