Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040114.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


BNP Unveils Its 2010 Campaign Issues: Afghanistan, Immigration and the Global Warming Conspiracy
April 7, 2010

NG5The British National Party will campaign in the 2010 general election on the issues of withdrawal from Afghanistan, a halt to the immigration invasion and an end to the Global Warming conspiracy, party leader Nick Griffin MEP has announced.

We are proud to map out three central and core policy issues which clearly differentiate us from every other political party in Britain, Mr Griffin said.

Every other party, Lib Dems and UKIP included, have announced their support for continued British military presence in Afghanistan.

Only the BNP is unequivocally opposed to this war and demands that all British troops be withdrawn immediately.

This must be done straightaway, right now, Mr Griffin said.

There is not a single grain of Afghan sand that is worth the blood of a British soldier.

It is a tragic and criminal waste of our young peoples lives and out tax money to even be there, never mind the legal issues involved which indicate that the war itself is illegal, he said.

The BNPs position on immigration was also well known, Mr Griffin continued.

Once again, only the BNP has mapped out policies and solutions to the immigration invasion which are perfectly in line with voter concerns, he continued.

All the other parties are in favour of immigration, either through the fake points-based nonsense, a balanced migration con trick or some other subterfuge.

Only the BNP demands an end to mass Third World immigration and the implementation of policies which will not only halt this colonisation of our nation by the Third World, but will indeed reverse it as well.

The third main plank of the BNPs campaign will be a focus on opposing and exposing the man-made global warming conspiracy, Mr Griffin said.

We will make voters aware that this now totally debunked theory is being used to systematically de-industrialise what is left of the British manufacturing industry and pay over billions to build up and modernise the industries of India and China, he said.

The global warming fraud is being used as an excuse to pile stealth taxes and undemocratic controls on the already long-suffering public.

For example, the taxes mean an extra 18 billion on electricity bills alone, Mr Griffin said.

These are the issues about which voters are concerned and on which we will campaign, Mr Griffin said, adding that the BNPs opponents never tried to debate policy and instead resorted to attempted character assassination and baseless smears.

The BNP will however campaign on our policies and we are confident that the voters will make their choices on that basis. The British National Party is the only party which has a coherent, logical and just policy programme which will rescue our great nation, he concluded.

* The BNPs manifesto is currently being finalised and will focus heavily on the economy and the need to rebuild Britains manufacturing industry which is the only way that real jobs and lasting prosperity can be guaranteed.

* The BBC has created a party policy comparison tool on its website which is surprisingly unbiased and gives a nearly accurate reflection of the BNPs position on most major issues of the day.

The BBC tool can be found by clicking here.

Posted in National News | Comments (259)

