Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228070025.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Defence and Foreign Affairs

The UK Independence Party supports a strong, effective defence policy for a free and independent nation. This means ensuring that our Armed Forces are properly funded and adequately equipped. Successive UK governments have allowed defence spending to be repeatedly cut, with damaging effects on morale and the predictable result that the ability of our forces to fulfil even their limited current commitments is severely compromised. It is UKIP policy that a portion of the funds that become available on leaving the EU will be used to regenerate all three arms of Britain's defence forces, both in terms of personnel and equipment.

Withdrawal from the EU will mean that our defence procurement policy is no longer dictated by a commitment to EU integration. This will free us from the closed, inefficient system that gave us the Tornado (the F3 version of which had to be excluded from front line combat zones in the Gulf War), the Merlin (at £100M per airframe the most expensive helicopter on record) and the Eurofighter (£60M per airframe), which is five years late and three generations behind technology leaders. Freed from these EU projects, we shall be able to purchase equivalent technology from the US at far lower cost, or buy into hi-tech US enterprises which would greatly enhance our military capability.

On leaving the EU we shall also withdraw from the 'Rapid Reaction Force'. This is, as Commission President Prodi has made clear, an embryonic European Army for a European superstate, under the command of Brussels. As such it will not 'defend' us but threaten our independence. A self-governing Britain will work constructively with allies in North America, Europe and elsewhere, to the extent that this is in British interests. We are not isolationists, but nor do we envisage ourselves as 'world policemen'. British forces have a valuable peacekeeping role, but only in areas of strategic concern or historical ties to Britain. We see NATO as the cornerstone of Britain's defence policy, in particular because it underpins our continuing voluntary military co-operation with the United States. We are concerned that, despite denials by our government, the integrity of NATO is being threatened by the EU's new defence arrangements.

The maintenance of an effective force requires different attitudes between military and civilian life, as is reflected in military law and recruitment. For instance, it is obvious that civilian sex and disability discrimination laws cannot be applied without qualification in the armed forces. The UKIP believes that the effectiveness of our armed forces is nonetheless being undermined by bureaucratic and politically correct management, and we shall strenuously resist this development. We shall, however, encourage recruitment from minority groups and the equal treatment of all military personnel, regardless of background. The UKIP will also seek to reverse the decline in the Reserve Forces and Cadet Corps in schools and local communities.

The aim of the UKIP's foreign policy will be to co-operate with other nations insofar as this is in Britain's interests, and to foster free trade. We shall reform overseas development policy: foreign aid should be handed to local communities themselves rather than governments or bureaucratic agencies. Aid will be conditional on decent standards of individual freedom and fiscal honesty, but we shall not use it as a weapon to destroy traditional ways of life. Such considerations will also be applied to the remission of international debt.

As discussed previously under Home Affairs, the UKIP supports the Council of Europe's original objectives as a positive alternative to the EU. This is because they are based on voluntary co-operation rather than the surrender of national sovereignty. Moreover they encompass the whole European continent, not just a privileged portion of it.

Continued membership of the European Union will increasingly diminish Britain's voice in international affairs, as more power is ceded to EU institutions. An independent Britain, by contrast, can be a major player on the world stage. Friendship with the United States and our role in the Commonwealth link us directly with more than a quarter of the world's peoples, and some of the richest and fastest-growing economies. Freed from the EU, we can use our influence to promote freedom, tolerance and fair trade.

Our opponents call us 'little Englanders'. We say that they are frightened of the world.

