Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228050022.txt

Party Manifesto: Green (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

• Not permit any further investment in newcoal-fuelled power stations.• Encourage renewable heat and combinedheat and power by levying a waste heattax on new power stations and by helpingcouncils develop heat distribution networksin suitable urban areas.Work to increase theadoption of biogas from organic sources suchas agricultural and sewage waste materials,working with the water companies to builddigestion plants.• Oppose the large-scale cultivation ofbio-fuels, especially in poor countries wherethey compete with land for food, or result inthe destruction of tropical forests.• Introduce stronger planning policies tosupport onshore wind, tidal, wave, solar andgeothermal energy schemes, and help localplanning authorities to make more consistentdecisions. Give micro-renewables ‘permitteddevelopment’ status.• Bring the electricity network and gas mainsinto a fully accountable public sector anddevelop them where needed for renewableenergy schemes.• Introduce smart meters and appliances.• Enlarge and develop renewable energyfeed-in tariffs paying premium rates for largeand small producers of renewable electricity• Support Europe-wide renewable energyinitiatives such as an under-sea grid for offshorewind and marine power, concentratingsolar power plants in southern Europe andthe North African deserts and the buildingof highly efficient long-distance high-voltageDC power lines.

Peak oil – dwindling suppliesOil is a finite resource; there is only so much in the ground. One day it will run out.But our problems begin long before then. The global rate of oil production is about to reacha maximum, stay constant for a number of years, and then gradually decline. This peak anddecline in oil production has already happened on a national scale in many countries, includingthe USA (1971) and in the UK (1999). The majority of predictions for the global peak fallbetween now and 2015.Once demand for oil exceeds supply the price will go up. From now on, oil is going to bedirtier, harder to extract and more expensive to refine. A similar fate awaits natural gas.The peak in gas production is expected to be later than for oil, but the decline will be muchfaster when it occurs.We use oil for nearly everything in our modern way of life - as fuel for transport and heating,and as a feedstock for solvents, plastics, asphalt, pharmaceuticals and packaging. Oil is alsovital for today’s industrial agriculture, providing chemical fertilisers, herbicides, fungicides,pesticides, fuelling machinery, processing and food delivery. High oil prices will wreckeconomies, leading to inflation and slump. Competition for oil has already led to war.

Nuclear power is not the answerWe recognise that some environmentalists,faced with the urgent need to combatclimate change, have reluctantly decidedthat nuclear power will have to be part ofthe energy mix.We do not agree. For example:• Sustainable Development Commissionresearch has established that even if theUK’s existing nuclear capacity weredoubled, it would only result in an 8% cutin CO2 emissions by 2035.• No long-term solutions to the problemof nuclear waste are yet available.• The economics of nuclear new-buildare highly uncertain, whereas wind power,for example, is now well establishedand predictable. There is a clear riskthat the taxpayer will have to pick upthe tab.• Nuclear is a centralised system ofgeneration when we should be pressingahead with micro-generation and localdistribution networks.• A new nuclear programme gives theimpression that a major technological fixis all that’s required, undermining the needfor energy efficiency.• If we build new nuclear power stations,we cannot stop other countries doing so.This increases the risks of accidents,radiation exposure, proliferation andterrorist attacks.

Carbon quotas would work like thisEach year a carbon budget would be setfor the UK. The budget would define thetotal amount of carbon dioxide that canlegally be emitted, and thus the totalnumber of carbon quota units available.This budget would be successivelyreduced each year in line with targets forreductions in greenhouse gas emissions.About half the carbon quotas would bedistributed, free of charge, to all theadults in the country. Each person wouldhave a ‘carbon account’ and wouldreceive the same number of carbon units.Parents would receive a lower allocationon behalf of their children.The rest of the carbon units would besold by the Government to companiesand other organisations.Whenever you buy fossil fuels (or airlineor train tickets) your carbon account cardwould be debited. You would have to payin carbon units as well as in pounds andpence. If you buy other goods or servicesthat involve carbon emissions in theirmanufacture or delivery, then the unitsthe manufacturer has used will bereflected in the price.You will be able to sell excess carbonunits, or buy extra units if you need to,at a wide range of outlets, like petrolstations or from energy companies.As poorer people use less carbon,carbon quotas would redistribute wealthsignificantly.

