Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_020025.txt

Press Release from Party: Lab

9.4.2010


Gordon Brown's Adoption Speech

Gordon Brown SpeaksGordon Brown MP, the Prime Minister and Leader of the Labour Party tonight spoke at his formal adoption as the Labour candidate in his constituency, Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath.

Addressing local Party members at the meeting, he said:

"I have set out on a journey across a month and many miles, to speak directly with the British people.

We all know what is at stake. Because just look at what happened when the global economic storm hit. More than anything else that shows the difference between a Government whose first priority is to fight for your jobs, your homes, your businesses - and a Party whose first priority is not to protect you, but to privilege the few.

When faced with the economic call of the century, the Conservatives called it wrong. While they were frozen in inaction, we took the bold steps, before t he rest of the world, to nationalise Northern Rock, to take control of our two biggest banks, and to work with the rest of the world to get the economy moving again. And let us always remember, thanks to our actions, not one British saver lost one penny of their savings. And I remember the letter I received from a woman after we stepped in to rescue Icesave. She said it was the first nights sleep she had had in days, because shed been worried sick about what would happen to her and her family.

But while we acted, the Conservatives passed by on the other side.

We offered young people a guarantee of training or a job; the Conservatives walked away from support and told young people to take the risk of a life on the dole.

While we put up five billion pounds to help the cash flow of 200,000 businesses; the Conservatives would have left businesses to sink or swim.

We gave 200,000 homeowners help with their mortgage payments; the Conservatives would have simply let the market rip.

From the start we knew what we had to do. We knew that we would have bad headlines with some of the decisions we had to take. But we were not deterred, because we knew that we were doing the right thing by the hard-working people of this country.

But this election is not about asking people to give us credit for what we did in the past. I know that what people really want to know, is whether they can entrust us with the economy for the future.

We have had a week of promises from the Tories  a week of something-for-nothing economics.

A week in which the Tories have been spraying uncosted promises around the country

But today the Tories got caught out.

Last week when the Shadow Chancellor George Osborne was asked whether he needed to cut public spending to pay for his tax cut, he said no.

But when the Conservative leader was asked this morning whether he would need to cut core public spending to pa y for his tax cut he said yes, absolutely.

One day one says no to cuts in our core public services. The next day the other says 'yes' absolutely to cuts in our core public services.

So now we see two Conservative spokesmen contradicting each other. They are at odds with themselves, and they are at odds with the facts.

They are not convincing the people of the country, they are not even convincing themselves.

The British people should not be asked to put a cross next to a question mark.

Its time for them to tell us the truth about the risk they pose to our front line public services.

On Wednesday, the Conservative leader had his shot at question time.
Today was answer time.

And now exposed as having no adequate answers to give, I say the Conservative policies are a real and present danger to our recovery and to our public services.

I think the British public know you cant promise to cut the deficit, raise fron t line public spending and cut taxes all at the same time.

That is the something-for-nothing economics that the British people will see through.

Our Government has made a promise that as we cut the deficit and do not go along the Tory road of cutting the National Insurance rise, there will be increased spending on our schools. Let us be clear; the Conservative Party refuses to match our plans for investing in schools, but I tell you we will keep our promises to the parents of this country.

We, the Labour Government, have made a promise that we will maintain the funding of our police; and Britain has the highest ever number of police officers in our countrys history. The Conservative Party are refusing to match our promise of investing in policing, and while the Conservatives are putting the advances we have made in cutting crime and keeping you safe at risk, we will keep our promises to the citizens of our country.

And Labour has made a promise that w e will now give every patient in the National Health Service a personal guarantee that they will see a cancer specialist within two weeks and in the coming parliament, they will have diagnosis within a week. And we have guaranteed that people will have access to a GP that is open in the evenings and at weekends. And I hope that the Scottish Parliament will achieve these health guarantees too. While the Conservatives refuse to back our guarantees, we Labour will keep our promises to the patients of our country.

And I do not want to go back to the pre-'97 Britain, where school roofs were leaking, where many patients were waiting more than two years for their operations, and police numbers were falling and crime was on the rise.

Let me also say something about the immediate choice between us and the Conservative Party over what happens in the next few months.

They have said that if they were in Government in 2010, they would immediately cut billions of pounds out of the economy.

And they now have one of their advisers admitting that in 2010, jobs would be lost.

We now have a Manchester University Professor and specialist adviser to the Treasury Select Committee who says that for only two billion of their spending cuts, a small part of their spending cuts, thousands of jobs - perhaps 40,000 jobs - would go.

So just at the time when the Government is ensuring that unemployment falls, a Conservative Government would make unemployment rise and put the economic recovery at risk.

So if they had their way and cut billions out of the economy only 2 months from now, the progress we are making in getting people back to work would be turned in reverse.

And is this not the same old Conservative Party, which even after the official end of the recession in the 1980s, let unemployment rise for five more years?

And is this not the same old Conservative Party which even after official end of recession in the 90s, l et unemployment rises for another three years?

I say if we want a recovery that lasts, with rising employment for the people of this country, dont let the Tories wreck the recovery now.

So today the Conservative Party is exposed as the Party that if in Government would raise unemployment in 2010. And the Party that, if they were in Government, would cut into our mainstream front-line services.

It is increasingly clear that if you vote Tory in May  you will be stung by July.

The truth is that if the Conservative Party had really changed they would have said unemployment is not a price worth paying.

And if the Conservative Party had really changed why do people not believe that our NHS, our policing and our schools are safe in their hands?

So in the days to come we will be talking about jobs for the future, and our plans to secure economic growth.

Eve n as we implement our tough deficit reduction plan  to more than halve the deficit in four years  we will never stop investing in the modern life blood of business  high speed rail, digital infrastructure, skills of the future, and advanced and green technology.

I want us as a country to emerge from this recovery with a new industrial economy creating a new generation of jobs for the future.

People will ask whether industrial policy isnt an outdated idea  and say perhaps we should just leave it all to market forces on their own

But the answer is that each entrepreneur operates inside a wider economy  and support given to platform industries, on which other growth is built, can make a massive difference to business growth and job creation.

Thats why we are targeting investment in manufacturing research to help UK companies develop the best-selling products of the future. And these capital allowances for manufacturing and businesses p rovide direct, targeted help to investment, while blunt corporation tax cuts - the Conservative policy - transfer resources from manufacturers and investors to banks and big financial institutions. I think people want to support investment in real engineering, not just financial engineering.

And people will rightly ask us, why should Government intervene in the digital economy, why shouldnt we just leave it all to the market if the rewards are as obvious as you say?

And the answer is, there are some investments that have such knock on impacts on the rest of the economy that Government needs to be involved to ensure they are of the needed scale and speed and that nobody is left behind. And so it is Labour who are prepared to offer direct support - a total of one billion pounds - so that every family and ever business in Britain has access to high speed broadband as we become a world-leading digital economy.

And people will ask us, why do we not simply wait fo r the market to get to grips with climate change? And the answer is that the risks are too great  and the opportunities too many, to simply leave this to chance. And thats why Labour has a plan to make Britain a world leader in a four-trillion market for clean energy goods and services, opening up the prospects of 400,000 new jobs for the British people, everything from the electric car to renewables like wind power.

For the last 30 years, the North Sea has been the worlds centre for developing the technology for oil  for the next 30 years it can be the leading centre for offshore wind.


And so we have an ambitious and progressive plan for national renewal, and the jobs of the future  a plan to rebuild our economy, and to create in our times a prosperity that is both sustained and shared.

If we make the right choices now, we can forge a country that is more green, more digital, more hi-tech, more skilled and more prosperous.

If we stay on the road to recovery without taking a risky right turn off, we can together build a country where all those who do their best and do their bit have a chance to get on in life and not simply get by, a country where we not only survive, but succeed and lead in the new globalised world.

So we go into this election fighting for causes as big as any we believed in in 1997. The ideals are as high, the aims as important, the chance of progress as great.

And we will fight for every vote, in every seat, eve ry hour between now and the close of polls.

We fight with strength in our soul and confidence in our cause because we are the peoples Party  not simply a Party in Britain, but the Party of Britain.

And this is my message, my pledge, and my mission: to govern not for the vested interests or the privileged few, but for the ordinary people who are the strength and heart of our country.


For 13 years we have been building a better country with new schools, new hospitals, more police, more apprentices, more home-owners and more jobs.

And our record of fighting and believing and delivering for Britain teaches us never to believe that a blind fate governs us all, never to believe that battling wont make a difference, never to believe the fairness is beyond our grasp.

And so I say to you my friends that at times we face obstacles but not for long.
At times we get criticism but we move on.
At times we falter but then we rise even higher, and we never, never, never give up.

And why? Because the ideals we stand for  justice, fairness and dignity for all  these ideals are not abstractions or just sentimental talk to comfort us, but beacons there to light our path even when it is long and difficult and dark.

We are agents of hope . With a mission for change. We can and we will build that future fair for all.

This is our task
We will not waiver.
We will not walk away.
We will not flinch.
We will fight on  and we will finish the job."

