Text ID:
uk_pm_el_10_228050029.txt

Party Manifesto: Green (uk) - National Elections 2010
-------------------------------------

Agreement on Sustainable Trade, which,together with a reformed InternationalMonetary Fund, would better reflect theinterests of smaller countries.We would:• Promote fair trade, so that trade withdeveloping countries is based on decentpay and conditions, with a fair price paidto producers.• Ensure that trade deals, whether global orwith the European Union, allow developingcountries to retain control over theireconomies and do not force throughderegulation and liberalisation.• Promote an international FinancialTransactions Tax (a Robin Hood Tax) ontransactions between financial institutions,and introduce unilaterally a small levy onforeign currency transactions involvingthe pound sterling.• Support the decent work agenda,by encouraging developing countrieswith which we work to implement coreInternational Labour Organizationstandards.• Ensure that UK companies operatingabroad adhere to environmental andhuman rights standards.
• Fully implement and enforce the UNConvention against Corruption (UNCAC)and the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention.• Increase aid.We will exceed the UN’s 0.7%target and allocate at least 1% of UK GrossNational Product for aid by 2011, adding anextra £4.5bn pa. Aid should be targeted forthe poorest, not involve economic policyconditions, respect gender equality and notbe diverted to equipping security forces.• Keep an International Aid Departmentseparate from the Foreign Office, with its ownSecretary of State, so as to separate foreignpolicy interests from humanitarian assistance.

Promoting fair trade startsat homeLed by Green Party local councillors andNorwich South candidate Adrian Ramsay,a Green Party motion for Norwich tobecome a Fair Trade City was adopted bythe City Council. This means that theCouncil stocks and helps to promote fairtrade goods.

The Robin Hood TaxWe support the idea of a Robin Hood Tax, sometimes called a Financial Transactions Tax(and similar to the special case of a ‘Tobin Tax’ on currency transactions). It would involve avery small tax (maybe 0.05%) on the value of every financial transaction between financialinstitutions worldwide. Globally this tax has the potential to raise as much as £250 billion,as well as help stabilise the financial markets.Any global climate change treaty must involve a transfer of resources of well overUS$150 billion a year from rich countries to poorer countries channelled through theUN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) to pay for the developmentof renewable energy technologies and climate change adaptation, and to help resistdeforestation.We favour dedicating the revenues from an international financial transactions tax to thispurpose and to wider global sustainable development. If that does not prove successfulthe UK must pay its fair contribution from other resources.

Debt, and ecological debtThe Green Party calls for a reassessment of the nature of debt itself by acknowledging thehistorical ecological debt owed by rich to poor countries.A 2008 study by the University of California, Berkeley, found that the rich world’s ecologicaldebt to the poor world outstrips the traditional debt owed by poor countries to rich ones.For example, greenhouse emissions from low-income countries have imposed US$740 billionof damage on rich countries, while in return rich countries have imposed US$2300 billionof damage on poorer countries.The ecological debt has been built up by: the extraction of natural resources without properpayment; the use of local and indigenous knowledge for the development of products(e.g. medicines) without proper recompense; the use of local land for mono-crop exportrather than for feeding the local population; and the appropriation of the atmosphere forthe disproportionate emission of climate change gases.Ecological debt needs to be acknowledged and paid for. Simultaneously, the Green Partywants to see the cancellation of all unjust and unsustainable traditional debt ‘owed’ by thedeveloping world to richer countries.Debts are often unjust and they worsen poverty. Much of the poorer world’s debt is leftover from reckless lending by wealthier countries in the 1970s. Some of the effects of this aremade worse by corrupt government in parts of the developing world, but the real damageis done by the huge repayments demanded by the IMF, the World Bank, and rich-countrygovernments.At the moment there are lots of strings attached to debt cancellation, often unjust andundemocratic in themselves. We want to see these strings removed. In the end the only wayto avoid debt in the future is economic justice now. This is why we positively support theMillennium Development Goals and their achievement by the 2015 target.

