Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040031.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP

Anjem Choudary, Radical Islamist  and CRE Employee
March 18, 2010

trevor-phillips-choudaryThe most extreme Islamist in Britain today, Islam4UK leader Anjem Choudary, used to work for the Commission for Racial Equality (CRE), the immediate predecessor to Trevor Phillipss Equalities and Human Rights Commission (EHRC), a BNP News investigation has revealed.

The close ties between the EHRC and the radical Islamist, who has called for a military invasion of Britain by Muslims and arranged demonstrations calling for Queen Elizabeth II to be cursed by God, puts a brand new perspective on the recent legal harassment to which the BNP was subjected.

Mr Choudary was most recently in the limelight after he planned to block a Wootton Bassett funeral procession for British soldiers killed in Iraq.

His organisation has also called for the implementation of Sharia law in Britain.

The revelation of his links with the EHRC is contained in a video of a lecture given by Mr Choudary to a closed group of followers which has leaked onto the Internet.

In the lecture, Mr Choudary also calls for a violent Islamic invasion of Britain, which he says would be one of four ways in which Islam will come to dominate Britain.

He also makes some snide and utterly untrue allegations about the BNP, but the important admission in the video comes near the end while  he is discussing how Islam is incompatible with Western society and then admits to having worked for the CRE in the 1990s.

He starts the lecture by detailing the four methods by which Islam is going to overrun Britain.

The Islamic state my dear Muslims can only come via four means  write them down and remember them. There are only four ways in which the Muslims will take the authority, Mr Choudary said.

Number one, if the Islamic state is established somewhere else in the world and they come and they conquer and they take the authority. That is a nice way of doing it, the foreign policy of jihad. They will come and Britain will be under the Sharia.

The second way that authority can be taken wherever you are in the world is for the people themselves to embrace Islam, and for themselves to rise and take the authority.

The third way that the authority can be taken is if certain sections of the community overthrow the regime. Like for example in Syria and Pakistan you have military coups.

Every other year they used to have a military coup in Syria. That is the way in fact the messenger of Mohammed did it in Medina.

The Fourth way its going to happen is if jihad began here like in Kosovo or Bosnia and the people came from another area to support us and the regime was overthrown.

If you look, in the past it used to be a case of multiculturalism. They used to say that. Remember that? In the 1970s and 80s the Commission for Racial Equality they used to say we believe in multiculturalism.

I used to work at the CRE at one point in the early 90s.

Remember with [...?] And, er, he used to be a senior lawyer there in fact. And [...] multiculturalism  everyone has their own culture, you can all practise it together.

Suddenly the Muslims said hang about  our culture we cant practice it with you because we believe cutting the hand of the thief. We believe stoning the adulterer. We believe we need to remove you and send the army of jihad.

This, then, is the type of person who found employment at the EHRCs predecessor. It is little wonder that this taxpayer-funded political organisation carries out the bidding of those who would see Britain utterly overrun and destroyed.

Posted in National News | 193 Comments 

