Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228010046.txt

Party Manifesto: LD (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Westminster

The Westminster Parliament is not sufficiently accountable to the voters, and the Government is not sufficiently accountable to Parliament. We will strengthen the House of Commons and democratise the House of Lords. We will:

    Replace the House of Lords with a smaller directly elected Senate with representatives from the nations and regions of the UK. The Senate will be given new powers to improve legislation. We will transfer the judicial functions currently undertaken by the House of Lords to a new Supreme Court.

    Streamline and strengthen the House of Commons. We will increase the powers of Select Committees and allow more pre-legislative scrutiny of bills. We will give MPs more say over the budget by allowing them to propose spending amendments. We will introduce a new annual Tax Bill, separate from the Finance Bill, to allow for greater consultation on tax matters. A new parliamentary commission will support Parliament by providing expert analysis of expenditure proposals.

    Introduce more family friendly and efficient working practices for Parliament to bring a wider range of people, particularly women, into Parliament.

    Carry out a Social Justice Audit of all bills to ensure that government legislation tackles inequality as a priority.

    Introduce a Civil Service Act to maintain the independence of the civil service. We will ensure that governments are not able to use the civil service for party political purposes by setting clear rules on the use of public money and government facilities.

In the long term, we will:

    Develop a written constitution for the United Kingdom in order to define and protect the constitutional freedoms our policies are designed to achieve.

    Separate Church and State. We will support the disestablishment of the Church of England to end political interference in the Church. The Head of State will be able to be a member of any faith or none.

