Text ID:
uk_pm_el_01_228070027.txt

Party Manifesto: UKIP (uk) - National Elections 2001
-------------------------------------

Summary

Leave the European Union ...

The UK Independence Party believes, along with most British people, that Britain should be ruled by our own elected parliament. Our parliament should be in charge of our laws, our taxation, our economic policies, our agricultural and fishing policies, our defence forces and our judicial system.

All these functions of government are being progressively taken over by the European Union. "In the EU" means government by the EU, and experience has repeatedly shown that trying to negotiate a better deal for Britain does not work. The UKIP believes in British democracy, not autocratic rule from Brussels. The only way to achieve this is for Britain to leave the EU.
... and keep the £ permanently

The euro would not be good for Britain's economy. It is not designed to be. Its purpose is to promote "ever closer union" within Europe, as EU politicians keep telling us. The UKIP is the only party that will keep the pound on principle, because we believe our government must be in charge of Britain's budget and interest rate policies.

If Britain joins the euro, our interest rates will be set to suit conditions in the EU, making boom-and-bust worse in Britain. The euro would not make borrowing cheaper, nor would it reduce unemployment. Britain is the 4th largest world economy and we are thriving outside the euro-area. We do not need to give up the £.
An independent Britain will be better off: ...

World trade and investment

Britain's trade with EU countries does NOT depend on membership of the EU's "single market". Norway and Switzerland do most of their trade with the EU but are not members. When Britain leaves the EU, our trade with EU countries will continue because we are one of their biggest customers. Also, release from the EU's external trade barriers will enable Britain to develop stronger trading links with countries outside the EU, like the US and the Commonwealth countries. And, far from putting off investment, a strong world-trading Britain free from EU restrictions will be an even greater magnet for foreign investment funds.

The Independence Dividend

When Britain leaves the EU, we shall stop giving £8.5 billion (and to become £11 billion) per year to the EU budget, and the UKIP estimates that at least a further £11.5 billion per year will become available to the Treasury from deregulation and a healthier economy. Our full manifesto sets out how this £20 billion "Independence Dividend" could be spent on pensions, agricultural assistance, run-down public services, the NHS, defence, schoolteachers and the police.

Deregulation

Leaving the EU will allow us to scrap thousands of EU directives which interfere with our lives, ruin businesses and destroy jobs, and the UKIP would pay particular attention to removing regulation from small businesses. We would also address the whole regulatory culture that has grown up in Britain, breeding more bureaucracy, enriching lawyers, and encouraging dishonesty and disrespect for authority. The taxation and benefit system needs drastic simplification and revision to restore the incentives to employment and 
enterprise.

Farming and Fishing

When Britain leaves the EU, we shall at last be rid of the Common Agricultural Policy, and free to design policies for farming and the countryside that suit Britain, not our EU 'partners'. Next time there is a foot-and-mouth outbreak, we can decide for ourselves how to deal with it. And out of the EU, we can re-establish control of our fishing grounds and allow our ruined fishing industry to recover.

Other policies

The UK Independence Party does not prescribe detailed policies in all areas. That will be the job of our elected UK government, which will be free to make laws that are in the interests of British voters once Britain is independent from the EU. But we do have clear views of the sort of independent Britain we want, with accountable, honest government at both national and local levels. We want government that earns respect, not contempt and suspicion.

The UKIP believes that the root of the widespread low morale and dissatisfaction with our public services is too much centralised control and bureaucratic management. Our attitude is to improve funding, and as far as possible to shift responsibility back to our schools, NHS staff, police and defence forces. We have competent and dedicated professionals in all these services. Leave them alone to get on with their jobs, free from red-tape, political-correctness, performance targets, spin-doctors, and fear of litigation.

In line with these principles, the UKIP would allow our schools to select and stream pupils to give the best opportunities for all. And besides concentrating on basic skills, an all-round education needs other activities including sports. We believe that the family, as the basic building block of society provides the best background for bringing up confident children, and we would restore tax allowances for married couples with children under 18.

There is deep concern about current levels of crime. The UKIP would find funds for more police, and free them from bureaucracy and politically-correct rules, allowing them to do their jobs effectively. And while rehabilitation must always be the objective, sentencing needs to act as an effective deterrent.

The UKIP recognises the contribution made by all immigrant groups to our culture and economy, and represents British citizens of all races and religions who want their country to be independent. However Britain cannot absorb unlimited numbers. The current problems of immigration and asylum result from inadequate enforcement of our laws, with migrants allowed by other EU countries to 'escape' into Britain. Our own government must re-establish proper border controls and apply our immigration laws humanely but firmly.

Finally, Britain needs a properly equipped, independent defence force that looks after British interests and continues to work with NATO, not as a part of the Euro-army. It is imperative that Britain retains its rightful place in world bodies like the UN and the G8, rather than being represented by the EU.

In 1999, British voters elected 3 UKIP members of the European Parliament. The UKIP is growing fast as more and more people realise that restoring Britain's independence is essential for Britain's future security, self-respect, and prosperity.

