
Labour Press

    Letter from Andy Burnham calling on Cameron to come clean over plans to strike deal with UKIP

    Dear Prime Minister,

    I am writing to urge you to come clean over your plans to strike a deal with UKIP.

    During last night’s debate you proved that you cannot defend your record, which is why you cannot win a majority. It is now clear that you are preparing to do a deal with UKIP.

    Repeatedly pressed, your Chancellor, George Osborne, and Chief Whip, Michael Gove, last night failed to rule out doing a deal with UKIP. When asked again this morning, Michael Gove only said: “Nein danke”. You have, yourself, frequently, ducked this question.

    As someone who follows rather than leads their party, you will know that a deal with UKIP is what the Tory Party wants. A growing number of your MPs and up to half of Conservative activists are arguing for it. Local Tory parties are already striking deals with UKIP up and down the country and, of course, two of your MPs have already crossed the floor.

    We know the terms of such a deal. Nigel Farage has said he would work with you in exchange for “a full and fair referendum to be held in 2015”. You have said you would be “delighted” to offer this.

    But the real terms of a deal would see the end of the NHS as we know it.

    Your Health and Social Care Act has increased NHS privatisation, and UKIP want to go even further.

    Private providers have won a third of NHS contracts to provide clinical services since your reforms. Nigel Farage has said he supports “an insurance-based system of healthcare”, while his deputy has warned that “the very existence of the NHS stifles competition”. UKIP’s ex-Tory MP, Douglas Carswell, has called for an “open market” in healthcare contracts.

    This shared agenda will be the real basis for your decision to work together. Your deal with UKIP is a poisonous proposition that would deny working people the care they rely on from a service they cherish.

    It is now essential that you come clean about your plans.

    Best wishes

    Andy Burnham
        April 3, 2015 (11:04 am)
