
Labour Press

    Labour pledges to create the biggest marine protection area in the world

    Labour will this week announce plans to protect more of our oceans than any other government in history.

    The next government will set out an ambition to create the largest marine reserves in the world in UK overseas territories.

    The pledge to create new overseas marine reserves alongside bold action to protect marine environments at home comes as part of Labour’s Green Plan that will be published next week.

    Maria Eagle, Labour’s Shadow Environment Secretary, said:

    “The previous Labour government did more for marine conservation than any government before or since. The Tories and Lib Dems have done next to nothing to protect the marine environment while they were in government and no one will believe their pre-election promises on marine protection. Only a Labour government will take the bold action required to protect our precious marine life.”

    Background

    1.    Labour’s Green Plan published on Monday (20th April 2015) will commit to delivering a full Marine Protected Area around Pitcairn as well as taking forward proposals for additional protected areas from the UK Overseas Territories of Ascension, and South Georgia and South Sandwich. If these can be successfully implemented, then consideration of the marine conservation potential of all the UKOTs will follow.

    2.    A marine reserve in Pitcairn will offer protection to 834,000km² of the most pristine waters and coral reefs on earth, providing international recognition and connecting this Territory to global marine science and tourism. Proposals for Ascension, and the South Georgia and South Sandwich islands, on which the next government will consult with local people, would offer unprecedented protection for turtles, sharks and whales.

    3.    The Marine Protected Area around Pitcairn will be funded within existing budgets and backed by private sector investment, and based on new satellite technology and communications.

    4.    Labour will also announce a commitment to establishing an ecologically coherent network of Marine Conservation Zones around the UK to complete the work of the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009. Labour will also ensure that quota allocation under the Common Fisheries Policy contributes to the restoration and maintenance of a thriving industry, including the revival of coastal communities and the protection of the marine environment.

    5.    The last Labour Government legislated to protect our marine environment in the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 and the Tories in Government have dragged their heels and only delivered 27 out of a possible 127 marine conservation zones.
        April 19, 2015 (10:04 am)
