Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_060065.txt

Press Release from Party: Con

ews story
Ending the free ride for those who fail to take responsibility
Tuesday, April 20 2010
David Cameron (Photo credit: Andrew Parsons)

A Conservative government will tear up the old ways of dealing with worklessness, which has got worse under Labour.

David Cameron pledged to introduce a new welfare contract by the end of 2010  a single comprehensive Work Programme offering unprecedented support for those looking for work, combined with new sanctions for anyone who refuses to work.

The new welfare contract will draw on the principles of the Big Society, backing people who do the right thing but ending the free ride for those who fail to take responsibility. The new sanctions will be introduced within six months of a Conservative Government taking office.

Speaking this afternoon, David Cameron said "the old way" of big government has failed. "It's time to tackle welfare dependency a new way - the Big Society way."

"We're going to change the whole way welfare is done in this country so everyone takes responsibility and plays their part. This is our new welfare contract: do the right thing and we will back you all the way. But fail to take responsibility  and the free ride is over."

As part of our Work Programme, we will offer unprecedented support to all those who are looking for work. We will:

    make sure you get help as soon as you need it  straight away for those really struggling to find work, and after six months if youre less than 25 years old;
    help you start your own business by giving you access to a business mentor and start-up loans;
    create a range of business-led training places to get you started on the road to employment, with 50,000 places in the hospitality and leisure industry to begin with;
    give you somewhere to go during the day  Work Clubs  so you can learn skills, find opportunities, make useful contacts and provide other people with support;
    if youre under the age of 25, provide a huge range of extra training opportunities  400,000 apprenticeship, training and college places over two years;
    and, pay back-to-work providers in full only if they get you into work for a year or more.

If you cant work and need to be paid Incapacity Benefit (IB) then we will give you the financial support to which you are entitled. And if you can work, and you actively look for work, we will give you unprecedented help to find a good job.

But you must keep to your side of the bargain. We will make sure that you are claiming the right benefits and, within six months of taking office, we will introduce new sanctions for anyone who refuses to look for work. We will:

    cut the benefits of anyone on Jobseekers Allowance (JSA) who refuses to join the Work Programme;
    cut the benefits of anyone who refuses to take up reasonable job offers: the first time for one month; the second time for three months; and, the third time for up to three years;
    cut benefits for up to three years for anyone caught repeatedly committing benefit fraud.
    reassess all current claimants of IB  if you are fit for work then you will be transferred onto JSA and your benefits will be reduced; and,
    require long-term benefit claimants who fail to find work to work for the dole on community work programmes.

You can read the Welfare Contract in full using the document reader below, or alternatively click here to download a copy in PDF format.

Go to news

    Subscribe
    Print



