Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030109.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

Veteran pledge to feature in SNP manifesto
Sun, 18/04/2010 - 10:03

The SNP will put forward a commitment to Scotlands veterans in the partys 2010 Westminster manifesto.

The proposal for a Veterans' Card has won the support of recently retired RAF Tornado pilot Colin McGregor and Jim Panton, Chief Executive of the Erskine Veterans' charity.

The card would build on the recognition already given to Scotlands veterans by the Scottish Government through priority medical care, extending concessionary travel schemes to injured veterans and the 240,000 Veterans Fund which supports veterans charities and services.

SNP Defence spokesperson Angus Robertson said: "Scotland's service veterans deserve more than just respect, they deserve to know that the country they have served so well will stand by them when they return to civilian life.

"Those who have risked their lives fighting for their country need to know that they can rely on extra help and support after they leave uniformed service, and other countries have schemes that allow their ex-servicemen and women to access services through use of a special card available to all veterans.

"The SNP Government is already moving to introduce extra help, such as free bus travel for injured veterans. And, at a time when Scots-based units are currently on the front-line in Afghanistan, we need to show support to them and their families. The introduction a Veterans' Card would be a massive signal of support to those who have served their nation with distinction."

Supporting the proposal recently retired RAF Tornado pilot Colin McGregor, a prominent support of veterans welfare issues said:

"This is an excellent development. A Veterans' Card would be great news for ex-servicemen and women. I'm really pleased about this commitment from the SNP and that it could be introduced soon."

Major Jim Panton, Chief Executive of the Erskine veterans' charity, added:

"Our servicemen and women deserve all the backing they can get once they return to civilian life, and the whole issue of veterans' support has come back onto the public agenda in a very big way in recent years.

"A Scottish Veterans' Card would be an excellent development for our retired forces personnel, and I fully support this excellent initiative, which shows Scotland leading the way once again."

Note:

Possible main uses for Veterans' Card:

1) to passport veterans through Scottish Government services where there are policies made to fit veterans' needs: health, housing, etc.

2) ID for further emerging veterans' services.

3) ID for commercial partners and organisations that want to give special promotions or discounts, as in the USA.

4) For the Scottish Govt to be able to contact veterans in Scotland, update them on services and support and tailor policies in different parts of the country where there different demands on services.
Filed under:

    Veterans


