Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_060012.txt

Press Release from Party: Con

News story
Brown's record 120 a month in council tax
Wednesday, March 24 2010
Caroline Spelman

In Gordon Browns first Budget Day tax rise, local tax bills in England are up by yet another 25, while Scotland has yet another freeze.

"Under his watch, council tax bills have doubled while frontline services like weekly bin collections have halved", said Caroline Spelman, the Shadow Secretary of State for Communities and  Local Government.

"You pay more and get less under Labour. This years rise of 25 compounds the hikes of previous years, pushing bills up to a massive 120 a month."

Council tax bills in England will rise by 25 on Band D bills this year, taking council tax bills to a massive 120 a month for a typical home. This comes as workers face pay freezes or pay cuts, and pensioners have suffered from lower income from their savings.

    Council tax bills in England are now a record 1,439 a year on an average Band D home from April. Bills have more than doubled under Labour (+109%).
    Labour claim that this is a low rise  yet they fail to mention that this years rise compounds previous above-inflation hikes. This years rise is 25 on a Band D home, pushing the average bill to a record 120 a month on Band D.
    By contrast, Scotland is benefiting from yet another council tax freeze this year, meaning bills are almost 300 a year less on a comparative Band D home north of the border.
    A Conservative Government would work with councils to follow the example of Scotland, providing additional central funding to help councils freeze council tax, such as by cutting government advertising and consultants. The Government is now the biggest advertiser in the country. Labour Ministers have explicitly refused to adopt such a policy in England.
    Labour Party documents are calling for a council tax revaluation and re-banding after the election. In the Welsh revaluation in 2005, four times as many homes moved up one or more bands as down; moving a Band D home up a band means an automatic 22 per cent hike in bills.

"A fourth term Labour Government will make further cuts by imposing fortnightly collections for all and hike bills even more through an intrusive council tax revaluation", Spelman added.

"As Scotland enjoys yet another council tax freeze, hard-working families and pensioners in England now face crippling council tax bills. Only a Conservative Government will work with councils to freeze council tax bills south of the border."
Go to news

    Subscribe
    Print

Caroline Spelman

Caroline is the Shadow Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government. Away from politics, she has helped set up two charities.
Read more
Spelman Caroline

    Conservatives.TV

Budget 2010: The day Labour were found out

Exclusive behind-the-scenes footage of the Conservative operation on Budget day 2010.

    Subscribe
    Go to Conservatives.TV



