Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_040046.txt

Press Release from Party: BNP


The Islamification of Britain Continues: First Islamic Stock Exchange to be Launched in London
March 22, 2010

Muslim_SHARIAH_LAWThe steady colonisation of Britain by Islam has taken another step forward with the announcement that a sharia-compliant Islamic stock exchange is to be launched in London in May.

The electronic trading platform, which will allow sharia-compliant companies to raise cash, is called the Sharia Ummah Securities Information Exchange (ShariaUMEX).

The aim is to further strengthen the foothold of sharia-companies in Europe which have sprung up as a result of decades of mass immigration polices promoted by the Tory/Labour ruling elite.

ShariaUMEX will be managed by a company named Halal Industries, chaired by a Mahesh Jayanarayan.

According to Mr Jayanarayan, UMEX is designed to provide a platform to companies with a capital value of at least 20 million pounds and is looking to raise the equivalent of at least 20 percent of their market value.

UMEX has lined up 10 Islamic Enterprises and over a [sic] 100 Sharia Compliant securities to be traded when it goes live, said Mr Jayanarayan.

He said the exchange planned to bring over a [sic] 100 global Islamic enterprise IPOs within a year from May.

Sheikh Hussein Hamid Hassan, the scholar heading the exchanges sharia panel, added: Having been through its early days, it is now time for the Islamic banking and finance sector to strengthen and expand the industry infrastructure to ensure sustainable global operations.

The Muslim population in Britain has multiplied 10 times faster than the rest of society over the four years from 2004 to 2008, statistics released by the Office for National Statistics revealed last year.

The increase was attributable to immigration, a higher birthrate and conversions to Islam during the period when the data was gathered.

The biggest Christian population is amongst those aged 70 and over, while for Muslims it is the under-fours, where there were 301,000 as of 2008.

Muhammad Abdul Bari, general secretary of the Muslim Council of Britain, has predicted that the number of mosques in Britain would multiply from the present 1,600 in line with the rising Islamic population.

Mohammed is now the most common name for baby boys born in London and three other English regions, official Government figures have shown.

The Islamic name overtook traditional choices like Jack, Thomas and Daniel to become the number one name in the West Midlands, Yorkshire and the Humber, and the North West, as well as in the capital, in 2008.

London is not the first European capital to see Mohammed become the number one name for baby boys. In Brussels, Amsterdam, Copenhagen and Oslo the name has already gained the top slot.

Posted in National News | Comments (91)

