Text-ID: uk_pr_el_10_030159.txt

Press Release from Party: SNP

Royal 'leak' Labour candidate challenged
Thu, 29/04/2010 - 12:38

The SNP candidate for Rutherglen and Hamilton West, Cllr Graeme Horne,
will tonight challenge the Labour candidate, Tom Greatrex, at a local
hustings to confirm or deny that he was the person who leaked
correspondence to the media in January between the Home Office and the
Scottish Government regarding the designation of footpaths in the
Cairngorm National Park Authority.

Mr Greatrex was a Special Adviser to Scottish Secretary Jim Murphy
at the time, and the Scottish Sun newspaper reported yesterday that:
Whitehall sources outed Tom Greatrex  now standing as Labour candidate
in Rutherglen, Glasgow  as the mole after a three-month probe by the
Cabinet Secretary Sir Gus ODonnell.

If Mr Greatrex was the leaker, the SNP has said that Labour would
have no choice but to suspend him as a candidate  in the same way as a
Tory candidate in Ayrshire was suspended this week.

The
Scottish Sun report followed a Parliamentary Answer published on Monday
by Scottish Government External Affairs Minister Fiona Hyslop which said
that it had been, established conclusively that the source was not a
Scottish Government civil servant.

Cllr Graeme Horne said:

This is an extremely serious
issue, and Mr Greatrex has so far failed to immediately confirm or deny
the report that he leaked this correspondence.  If he did, Labour have
no choice but to suspend him as a parliamentary candidate.

"Tonight's hustings gives him the opportunity to clear the air and
'confirm or deny' his position. That he has not so far leaves him open
to suspicion. I am reliably told that he has also failed to respond to
local media inquiries about this issue.

A Home Office Minister, quite rightly, made the point that the
police wished as little attention as possible for the paths, and we now
have it reported that it was a Special Adviser to Jim Murphy and a
Labour Party candidate in Scotland who was responsible for this
disgraceful leak.

This matter is straightforward but urgent. If Tom Greatrex was not
responsible, he must deny it.  If he was, he must be removed as the
Labour Party candidate in Rutherglen and Hamilton West.

ENDS

Notes:

1. Details of tonight's hustings are

Venue: BLAIRBETH
CHURCH, 2 Church Avenue, Burnside, Rutherglen

Time: Starting at
7.30pm.

2. The report in the Sun can be read here.

3. The Scottish Government Parliamentary Answer as appended:

S3W-33373
- Joe FitzPatrick (Dundee West) (SNP) (Date Lodged Friday, April 23,
2010): To ask the Scottish Executive what the outcome is of the leak
inquiry that the First Minister requested on 21 January 2010.

Answered by Fiona Hyslop (Monday, April 26, 2010): On 21 January
the First Minister was questioned in the Scottish Parliament about an
exchange of letters between the Minister for Environment and the Home
Office concerning the placing of paths across the Balmoral estate. The
First Minister explained that the Scottish Government had asked the Home
Office to institute a leak inquiry to establish how this breach in the
principle of confidentiality of communications, particularly on
sensitive matters such as Royal security, had come about.

4. I can now report the following:

i. an investigation was
conducted by the Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of Justice, with
the full co-operation and assistance of Scottish Government staff, in
parallel with the investigation by the Permanent Secretary to the
Scottish Government;

ii. the Scottish Government contribution to these investigations
established conclusively that the source was not a Scottish Government
civil servant, despite the allegations to this effect which were given
prominence in the press at the time;

iii. the First Minister has had constructive discussions with Sir
Gus ODonnell, Cabinet Secretary and Head of the Home Civil Service,
about how to deliver their shared objective of preventing unauthorised
disclosure of  inter-Governmental correspondence.

iv. Sir Gus ODonnell has assured the First Minister that he views
such breaches of confidentiality as unacceptable and that he has ensured
that appropriate lessons have been learned.
Filed under:

    Elections
    SNP


